up next on c-span live coverage of the
Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on
terrorism narcotics and international
operations chaired by Senator John Kerry
today's hearing began just a few moments
ago and we join the proceedings now in
progress
surreal witness in a trial it is a
witness in the trial of DEA agent
Camarena and we are anxious not to cause
any problems with respect to that trial
so in accordance with an agreement with
the US attorney we will hold that
testimony for the time being that will
be made public at some time in the
future or there will be a public hearing
secondly Admiral Murphy was due to
appear tomorrow he has been detained in
California will not be able to be with
us tomorrow tomorrow was going to be a
short day anyway so we felt that the
better thing to do was to proceed with
the closed session and and then hold our
public hearings at a later time secondly
with respect to Monday I already
announced but I want to reiterate there
is an important segment of this story
that will be told but it must be delayed
from Monday because of the need to have
one of those key witnesses appear in the
Middle District of Florida with the US
Attorney there again in a matter that is
currently underway and again this
committee does not want to interfere
with that process and so we are honoring
the request of the US attorney and that
will necessarily because we want to tell
a whole story rather than be sporadic a
delay the proceedings of that day today
we are going to proceed to tell one
whole story a piece of the Contra drug
story but I want to emphasize
that these hearings are about the larger
aspect of narcotics narcotics
trafficking and while today focuses
obviously on the Contra question and on
the private aid Network question what I
really hope it will do is underscore the
way in which clandestine efforts private
aid networks were taken advantage of by
the narcotics process and this is one
more demonstration of how the narcotics
business has permeated yet another area
of our life and also I think taken
advantage of of pre-existing networks or
of ones that were created for other
purposes and I think it is an important
story there will be five witnesses who
will talk about their personal
involvement in either guns or narcotics
or money as part of this network that
was assisting the Contras there will be
one witness whose name is mentioned by
many of those other five who will deny
some of his involvement but I think the
story will be well told and fully told
the first witness is mr. Gary bets nur
mr. bets nur I ask that you stand please
and raise your right hands so that I can
swear you do you swear to tell the truth
the whole truth and nothing but the
truth so help you God I do please be
seated
do state your full name please
Gary Lane Metzner your date of birth 3
1941 where were you born
Akron Ohio and you are currently
incarcerated in federal prison is that
accurate that's correct sir
what are you serving time for
importation of cocaine
how many years is your sentence 27 years
and two months it's the first time
you've ever been sentenced to jail yes
and is this only your second arrest in
your lifetime yes sir
had you prior this period of involvement
in drugs been involved with drugs I no
sir I haven't
now let's if we can I want to elicit a
few questions from you that tell
something about you and your background
I'd like to ask you you say you were
born in Akron Ohio but you didn't grow
up there did you
I know sir I understand my parents were
just passing through and where did you
go to Arkansas go to school in Arkansas
yes sir I did through what level senior
year of high school that's correct
what high school did you go to Duvall's
bluff high where is that that's in East
Central Arkansas on the White River
about 50 miles east of Little Rock what
did you do after high school I went into
the Navy what how long were you in the
Navy for over four years what I have
years counting reserve time what years
was that fifty nine through 63
what were your tours of duty well I was
on the aircraft carrier for a year and I
spent the balance of what aircraft
carrier server the USS Hancock a CV a 19
on the west coast we toured the Far East
and then your subsequent tours my
subsequent tours I went to a navy school
for approximately six months and then I
was assigned to patrol squadron VP 17
out of Woodley on in Washington that
would
my entire term you were honorably
discharged that's correct sir
with what rating I was enlisted man east
six I believe yes did you had you
previously attended college at all no
sir I had and I attended while I was in
the Navy some and after I got out during
the course of your naval career did you
also do some anti-submarine warfare
patrols yes sir I did
approximately three years I flew three
different tours in Alaska my specialty
was electronic countermeasures and did
that come to serve you well and some of
your efforts and drug smuggling later on
yes sir I did
we'll get into some of that later after
you completed the tour of service in the
Navy did you then go to college yes sir
I did
where did you go to college Arkansas
State Teachers College did you graduate
and no sir I didn't how many years did
you spend there I quit after I'd gone to
school there almost a year what did you
then begin to do well I didn't know what
I really want to do with my life at the
time and so because of my past
experience I was hired by global
associates which was the logistic
support contractor the Pacific Missile
Range out of Kwajalein Marshall Islands
how long did you do that for I was there
for a year or so then I left the island
and went back to terminated my
employment after I got back to the
States went to Bellingham Washington
where I had I had friends and then I
later moved to New York at some time did
you go to Arkansas I begin farming yes
sir I went back there my parents had a
farm and I went back there and 6566 I
believe already 66 and at that time you
kind of settled down and became a crop
duster is that accurate that's correct
but when did you get your commercial
pilot's license I think I got it in 64
what ratings did you receive
at the time I only had a commercial
license since then you ever received
what ratings airline transport pilot
multi engine commercial single multi
engine land and helicopter and I'm also
a NP mechanic now are you while you were
in Arkansas you started a crop dusting
business is that correct that's correct
sir
did you also become a member of the JC's
yes sir I was JC Mason and a charter
member there Shriners in Anchorage
Alaska and did you achieve a position
within the JC's we want the president of
your JC's and that's correct sir
where was that Hazen Arkansas now how
long did you run the crop-dusting
business for about 12 years
during what when did you stop the
crop-dusting business in 77
he went to Alaska for a period of time
yesterday I went to Alaska in 7576 and
you kind of drifted in Alaska a little
bit no sir I moved in bought a home in
Anchorage moved my family there went to
work for a company there that ran
helicopters for a while and what was the
name of that company international air
taxi and some time you left Alaska yes
sir I did
where did you go we moved back to
California for a while and Newport Beach
and then after that we moved back to
Arkansas what did you do when you got
back to Arkansas crop-dusted I began to
crop dust I was going through that year
but I subsequently got arrested in Miami
Florida okay now at some point then when
you returned to Arkansas did you attempt
for the first time in your life to buy
some cocaine yes sir I did
hey you never tried it uh no sir
actually I haven't No
and on this occasion when you tried to
buy some you actually got busted during
that first purchase is that correct
yes sir it's true where were you busted
a Miami Florida and what happened after
you got busted what did you do well
after I was released on bail I went back
to Arkansas what did you know
crop-dusted for a while then what then I
jumped bond I was afraid of going to
jail because extenuating circumstances
and the embarrassment of the whole thing
and my parents and none of my family had
ever gone outside the law and there were
good normal people what did you do once
you jump bail I left Arkansas on a
motorcycle and went to California and
did you then become involved somehow in
drug smuggling while you were running
away from justice yes sir early 1980
scribe how that came about
well I'd lived in Hawaii for a while and
then Oregon and I ran out of money and I
acquired a job in Miami and I moved down
there
I had reestablished myself under another
ID you were then known as Lucas harmony
is that correct yes sir that's a name
you chose yes we did and did you then
start to work for Decca aircraft that's
correct
what were you doing for them just
general things washing airplanes
painting airplanes just general things
like that were you doing any flying no
sir not at the time you had an accident
while you were on the job correct yes
sir I fell off of an air florida 737
wing between a checkstand and broke the
small bone in my left leg so you were
during during a period of convalescence
you met a friend of yours who was
involved in drug trafficking yes sir
that's correct and that was the
beginning of your career yes sir
would you describe how that began well I
met this guy and he had a friend of that
an airplane and they were in the
business and mostly mostly there in what
business and the marijuana business and
one of them had a connection in
Columbia and he made arrangements and
gave me the aircraft and whatnot what
kind of aircraft was that this was an
old twin bonanza did he make an
arrangement for you to fly to Columbia
to pick up drugs and that's true what
year was this I believe was nineteen
early age not early nineteen eighty now
let me just caution you here is I have
the other witnesses and I want to do
this publicly because from here on in
your testimony is is is very important
to what this committee is looking at and
I want to caution you that as you know
you're under pains and penalties of
perjury here you sworn to tell the truth
and this committee does intend to hold
any individual as accountable as we can
in the full measure of the law if you
don't tell us the truth and I want to be
certain that you understand that before
we go on I understand pretty well your
sentence right now is how long 27 years
in two months eligibility for parole is
when I haven't been at the parole board
I don't have any idea and you have had
no conversation with this committee or
anyone to do with that have you
regarding any parole or any kind of
efforts this committee would make on
your behalf none none whatsoever now and
is it fair to say that you are also
prepared to say to this committee some
things that you have not yet said
publicly yes ma'am now mr. Betts no what
would you describe to us this first drug
venture you went on you'd never flown
down there before how did you know where
to go well I'm a violent and I've had
considerable navigation experience so it
was relatively simple for me to do I
just left southern Florida and the
aircraft had eight hours of fuel and I
made it to northern Colombia what they
call the Y heater desert a strip on the
lake which is a mono almost in a very
tip of Colombia
I did reckoned all the way down and just
by kompis the aircraft didn't have any
modern navigation equipment I was in the
daytime I got there the marijuana was
there but the gas wasn't the gas got
stuck in the desert and so I didn't get
fuelled until probably 10 o'clock that
evening I took off I flew back found the
eastern tip of Cuba it was a starlight
night we got the northern coast of Cuba
approximately 20 to 12 to 15 20 miles
off the coast until I saw the lights of
Miami my designated landing point was
the keys in Florida I arrived there
there was some trouble with the strip I
was supposed to land on understand the
customs or someone had was there and so
how did you know that was there we need
to kill warn you yes not communicated by
radio to the ground what was it to the
ground or to some other entity to the
people on the ground where we were
waiting for me to unload the aircraft
and they told you there was a problem
right so where did you go I went to the
next nearest strip because I had eight
hours of fuel and I've been in the area
eight and a half hours as I recall so I
went into marathon how much were you
paid for that run I originally
contracted for $40,000 but because I
saved the load I charged the people
extra ten grand
when you say you saved the load when you
got to marathon nobody was there or well
no one was there and I had to take care
of it myself
now why let me ask you a question of
curiosity why would a drug effort that
makes thousands of dollars and here you
are being paid fifty thousand and
they're gonna make a lot more on the
load not fly a more sophisticated
navigational equipped plane were these
people were just young people that were
into entrepreneurs you might say into
making a few dollars this in the start
of their life that's the way I picked up
on it so you just took whatever aircraft
was available at that point I took the
only aircraft that they had available
did you in fact get more sophisticated
aircraft at a later time yes sir I did
did how many flights did you do for
these people that that person I think I
did another one for him and a couple
more for different people were they all
to Colombia no they were a couple of to
Jamaica what did you pick up in Jamaica
marijuana do you bring them back to the
same location in the United States no
different locations you want a name
where you took them to well Gainesville
a southern Florida and your Okeechobee
and what do the near Okeechobee did you
perform other surface other services for
drug traffickers besides pilot and in
what capacity in any other capacity did
you do any other things for them besides
fly planes well yes sir I owned a
company and at a later date this was
after I had was actually in 83-84 I had
a company at Tamiami Airport that did
aircraft maintenance mostly installing
tanks and that sort of thing now during
these four flights did you have occasion
to fly over into Cuba again
yes sir I went across Cuba three times
during these first four ventures yes sir
well weren't you worried about violating
Cuban airspace well the first time I had
to go across because my auxilary tank
that the people had installed for me I
didn't function properly and I didn't
have enough fuel to go around the East
End so I had to go across Cuba and it
was an overcast day and I was about
12,000 feet I was in a single-engine
aircraft one of those bonanzas that were
approved for aerobatics and they
launched the MiG's on me MIG 19 and I
pulled out my shirt and I was waving it
like a you know a white shirt
and they made several passes at me while
I was you know leaving I was going north
and and then it made another pass at me
and he wasn't coming around to pull up
beside me he was coming up on my tail so
I roll the aircraft upside down and
birdied what they called a split ass and
I went through the clouds and I broke
out about 3,500 feet across a near an
air base called camaguey Airport space
lots of military equipment aircraft
large and small went across the island
going north down through a ravine and
zigzag all the way over to Jamaica and
when I got the Jamaica I loaded my load
through about 45 minutes so west and
headed north and about 20 foot off the
water I hit the mountains in Cuba and
went back across Cuba in the daylight on
the ground and sometimes I flew below
the sugar cane you know and I made it
across had no problems and I got to
floor about 5:00 and evening southern
Florida and flew to Gainesville the the
guys were supposed to have a remote
strip there but they didn't and they hit
a pig or something going out this trip
and messed up the truck and so I went
into Gainesville and and they had some
people waiting for me there and that's
about the end of that did you have any
problems with customs or anybody coming
into US airspace
unfortunately no did you take any
special measures to evade or avoid that
no I didn't know other than fly low and
at that time as I recall through the
shipping channels just south of Key West
or there was a considerable amount of
shipping and I would be below the the
ships on the water and if there it
wasn't a radar they wouldn't be able to
take me and besides when you're heading
into the radar you're less profile than
you are when you're sideways to it
how much of the load did you bring back
in those first four flights each time
and what the first load is about 1,500
pounds the second load was about seven
800 pounds of sinsemilla which is a more
expensive substance the other two loads
were 15 1,600 pounds in those aircraft
did you develop an airplane modification
business for drug smugglers during this
period of time yes sir I was into that
where did you handle that out of out of
ten am ii this was part of your avionics
and mechanical operation alright i had
originally set it up to just service my
own aircraft but i knew other smugglers
and you are rated as an avionics
technician yourself yes I am okay now
how many hours of flight time did you
have when you began your adventures as a
drug pilot I would say 15,000 plus
you're a very proficient pilot that was
a good flyer and a pilot and when you
distinguish the two you're talking about
being able to fly by the seat of your
pants versus the instruments so yes I'm
fair to say was the crop-dusting good
training for the kind of thing you had
to do and the best after you ran these
first four flights did you then stop or
did you become involved with other
people no I didn't stop it we came
enough involved other people what did
you become involved with then well I I
did a few myself and I lost my first
load lost I had bad fuel not a Columbia
Anna in a queen air and I couldn't make
it so I had to go into Bimini what kind
of plane were you in a queen air
Beechcraft Queen air flying from
Columbia yes sir
back to the United States you lost your
engines mm-hmm what al to do were you at
well I lost my engine I was about
5,000 feet east of Andros I lost one
engine and it seems to fuel as bypass
filters in the fuel to the engine engine
was starving and flooding out actually
and so I continued on and I was about 50
feet off the water
approaching the Florida coast and the
other engine fuel warning light came on
and so rather than go in the water I had
to go to Bimini and so I was near Bimini
and I turned in a vor and the right
engine quit in the left engine quit and
I kept starting and restarting engines
and I made it into Bimini what happened
when you got to Bimini well no one saw
me and I ran the aircraft off the runway
under the bushes was some other wrecked
aircraft were and we left the aircraft
and my co-pilot ran off and at this time
I had put so much into this that I just
was determined to save it
and so I unloaded about 300 pounds into
the jungle and and I left and went up to
sort of survey the aisle and see what
was going on anyway I wound up losing
the load and that night I was arrested
with the Bahamian as they help me unload
the rest of the marijuana and they held
a gun on me and I finally admitted it
was mine and I told the sergeant they
had the gun on me that I had 300 400
pounds in the weeds in the jungle and
that give it to him he let me have my
aircraft and so he agreed and the
Bohemians shot the lock off of a dc-3
there and two 55-gallon drums of fuel
and clavicle my wings imported in the
aircraft and and I took off it was about
10:30 and I lost an engine on takeoff
and I nursed it all the way to Florida
and I was trying to get into opa-locka
West but I lost both engines they
wouldn't run anymore so I feather them
and landed after the tower it closed in
opa-locka
at some time very shortly thereafter did
you meet mr. George Morales yes sir I
went back over to Bimini the next day -
why'd you why'd you go back to Bimini I
was going to try to buy in the load that
I lost their back and when I got there
Bahamian introduced me to George Morales
is an employee Jairo Plata who was a
Colombian American and Jairo knew I was
a pilot and what I was about and so he
introduced me to George I was at the big
game Club George was in a fishing
tournament there and he had a boat by
the name of the bar bet very nice fellow
and we struck up a rapport and he just
took me right into his family and did he
know that you dealt in drugs at that
time no no sir I didn't I wasn't a
dealer I'm not very good at that sort of
thing I'm just a pilot and he know that
you flew drugs yes sir
he didn't know prior to that but during
the course of that conversation he came
to know that you did that yes sir
and did you know anything about George
Morales and his involvement with
narcotics no I had never met the man
before did you come to learn during that
conversation that he might be able to
use your talents as a pilot fly yes I
did and so in fact you entered into a
business relationship with mr. Morales
to fly narcotics is that correct that's
correct
when did you do your first narcotics
flight for mr. George Morales probably a
week or two weeks and I think after I
met him did you learn anything about
George Morales about his background
about things he did what he was involved
in yes as time went on we became quite
good friends what did you learn about it
know that it was from bogota colombia
that had been in a construction business
he would been an import-export and all
kinds of different things and uh he just
a very charming witty a nice guy to be
around
did you learn that he had any special
talents with respect to boats oh yes he
was into boats and he was a smuggler
when I met him I mean he
was quiet he was into it at the time he
also competitor competitively
internationally in speedboats yes he was
when I met him but he was getting into
it at that time in a big way and he
later only became world's champion then
raced all over the world now how then
did you come to do your first flight for
Jorge Morales when George gave me this
old beat-up Aztec and just to see if I
could do it I guess and it was my test
and so I was successful and where did
you fly to to Colombia and back to a
great Harbor key I was supposed to go
into another Island and but I couldn't
find the island and saw went into
another strip that was an unlit and but
it was a starlight night and I found the
strip and I landed there and I had met
had been in this place before and I had
met a couple of Bohemians and they just
happened by luck to have been at the
airport that night and we unloaded the
aircraft and they took it to the north
end of the island and and we got some
gas out of the preachers aircraft there
and put in my Aztec and I took off about
2:00 in the morning and and finally
found the island where we were supposed
to meet was that again a flight from
Colombia yes where did you pick up the
goods in Colombia the same places before
um near there you know the the deserts
quite large in northern Colombia
approximately as I would call of so many
probably 3040 miles inland so you landed
with the Aztec that was your first load
for George Morales and it went
successfully that's great
did you have to pay off any Bahamian
officials in order to be able to land or
to bring the goods in well that actually
that's the first time we started working
in great harbor from from that
experience own we paid off the people
and and from that experience on we
worked out a great harbor it became our
home so to speak then when you say you
paid off the people did you
personally pay people I did a few times
later but most the time Jairo Plata
handled that aspect of it
I knew the behaviour before he did but
there was a another operator working out
of there the name of Enrique Jose
Enrique Lopez alias Henry Lopez who was
a former partner of Kojak
Gavin Naima Kojak I let the record show
that the gentleman known as Kojak
testified before this committee I think
a year and a half ago and we have his
full testimony which corroborates much
of what these other witnesses have said
and will said mr. Kojak has since
deceased of a natural causes in the last
year but that testimony I believe will
be released at an appropriate time
subsequent to this hearing
now did you do some work with this
gentleman named Kojak and Lopez I no sir
I never worked with Kojak he was at the
time was a DEA informant however I did
work quite closely and became good
friends with Henry Lopez did how many
flights did you then begin to do for mr.
Morales I think that was in 1982 I did
50 for him pretty quick 50 flights yes
sir alter where alum BIA no not Oliver
to Colombia I did a couple out of
Jamaica in the beginning what year are
we talking about now 81 82 that area
what kind of plane did you graduate from
an Aztec yes I flew a 402 that I had the
george cessna 402s and it was modified
considerably and then I told Georgia we
could do a whole lot better if I
a better aircraft and and so we got a
panther what kind of plane is a panther
a panther is a piper night Navajo we had
the early model which was a light
aircraft and it has 350 horsepower
lycoming engines with four bladed q-tip
props this increases a performance that
considerably what's the normal gross of
that plane that you could carry in
marijuana what most people can with say
240 gallons of fuel they carry 17 1,800
pounds
this aircraft I used to fly it with 320
gallons of fuel and I've hauled as much
as 3,000 pounds did you get did mr.
Morales buy several of these planes yeah
after a while we called his place the
zoo and so many panthers are in half how
many Panthers did he buy I know at four
or five so mr. Morales had other pilots
flying for him in addition to yourself
now yes ma'am did you get to know some
of those other pilots no III as you know
I was a fugitive and I I carried myself
that way I hadn't associated in public
or coming and go I met some people but
the only pilot that I knew well there
were a couple but the only pilot I knew
it was Richard Healey who was George's
chief pilot at aviation activities who
did who is mr. Richard Healey
he was George's chief pilot as I said
and he was a Colombian American his his
father was American his mother was
Colombian he was bilingual good
helicopter pilot good pilot a nice fella
yeah where did he live he did in Miami
and who was he married to do a girl
named Marta
she used to be Marta jhamora and she
married she's a Nicaraguan
and they were married and they had one
daughter and the Richard Healey that was
married to
Marta Healy was also flying narcotics
with you is that accurate yes where he
made a few trips with me and this is the
same Marta Healy who at one time or two
times actually was married to Adolfo
Papo tomorrow is that accurate yes sir
okay and the dolphin Popo tomorrow you
know to be one of the leaders of the
southern front are de contra movement is
that accurate that's accurate and did
you know him to be somebody working with
Adan Pastora in Costa Rica and no sir I
did not know at that time no at that
time you came to know that later yes
okay now
the record should show here that Marta
Healy is under subpoena to this
committee we have been talking to her
attorneys she has still not appeared
here in the Washington yet but she is at
this moment under subpoena did you fly
both marijuana and cocaine in the course
of these 50 flights I know sir marijuana
and pills Walloons
yes sir where did the pilots come from
Colombia
you flew those all to the Bahamas yes
sir and the nature of the operation was
that you would offload in the Bahamas
yes sir and how would the drugs then
come to the United States by boat whose
boats George's and then he would have
other people contracted to other
smugglers that was there especially
mostly Cuban what kind of boats would
they use just a varied amount of the
cigarette tightener you know speedboat
did any Bahamian officials ever fly with
you on any of these drug lines
oh yes sir on several occasions how did
what what was it that God a Bahamian
official into an aircraft with you on a
drug flight well I spent considerable
time in the Bahamas flying the baseball
team around in Georgia's dc-3 whose
baseball team the different islands had
different baseball teams and I don't
recall each Pacific one the police
baseball team the defense baseball team
you know and they were in the baseball
and I flew politicians around and
officials around that was just part of
the service and I got to know a lot of
people and and then they got to know
that I was a good pilot and I suppose
and and so offer let them go along with
copilot which was just good business
and we usually paid him $15,000
when you say officials can you be more
precise about what kind of an official
oh yes with a Bahamian police force
officials any customs or not that would
call any customs immigration I knew I
knew a lot of them but I think they made
enough money that they made enough money
otherwise that they didn't need to fly
the aircraft and some of the Defence
Force people what did you mean when you
said that was part of the service when
you described flying the baseball teams
around what as part of the service means
well the George was always into being
control of the situation and he's a good
businessman and so the politics and
Bahamas were conducive to good business
and so he would you know loan his
aircraft to different people to just as
you know know what you would call it and
goodwill goodwill know how much did you
have to pay officials in order to have
them look the other way or take part
well you will usually don't wanted to
pay them about fifteen thousand a trip
which was was reasonable because the
customs integration get five a piece in
the in the military or the police on an
island we get five and after a while
they would get greedy and so when they
would get greedy we we we started
kicking it out on Lauren fixes off the
island and we had Bahamian Islanders
working with us that would pick the
bails up and and bring them back in and
then we had loved them on the speedboats
and bring them home did you perfect
water drops during that process yes
ready can you describe that well we have
two boats out approximately a mile and
half two miles apart at a certain
position prearranged Lorena fix they
usually went in by ground they didn't
have
I ran but I would use my Loran to find
them and they would light flares and I
would descend about a hundred feet on
instruments open the back door and have
an experienced kicker there and they
would just kick the bales out what'd he
mean by an experienced kicker
what's somebody that wasn't afraid and
to do the job and they were strong and
and could do the job quickly had to make
about three passes and it was all
instruments it was subsequently a
several people lost their lives trying
to do that but we did that and then the
Bohemians would agree to our prices and
would usually go back and start landing
again how much money did you make
working during this period this was a
first sort of period that you worked for
mr. Morales correct mm-hmm and this
period went from when to when I've
talked to George about this too and as
time is kind of a strange thing in those
days I would say the late 81 to the end
of 82 there was a eight month period in
there where I did 50 trips for George
not it's been a several for Henry but I
know there was 50 I did four on George
and I made two million dollars 40
thousand a trip he paid me for every
trip did you during this time have
occasion to again fly over Cuba one day
I was teaching George the fly and and we
went into Havana
I don't I don't remember I think it was
an 83 some time George and I stayed in
contact and he would come by my house
and leave notes and stuff like that and
I would meet him and we'd go do things
together and he'd keep me up on what was
going on and he had had trouble after I
left because he had so much heat with
his indictments and things and I
couldn't stand out to your recollection
when was George indicted well he was
indicted in 1980 with Richard Healey and
another fellow and Jairo Plata the
conspiracy on a dc-3 load into being
and then he was indicted again and 84 I
think all right it may be an 82 and then
one where he left for 70 he had several
different indictments but nothing ever
became of him but I know you said you
went into Havana what do you mean by
that you just flew into Havana right
already no van it how'd you manage to do
that Javon Clarence
well I didn't know at the time Georgia
just playing a trick on me he said do it
and so long we did it but I landed and
went there and I stayed by the aircraft
and George left and came back about an
hour later and we departed did you have
a special code or something that enabled
you to get in now that I know of did you
at some time get given a code to permit
you to overfly Cuba yes now George gave
me a code a transponder code what was
the transponder code he gave you one 301
when did he give you that in 82 83 82
somewhere in that period okay now did
there come a time when you stopped
flying for George for period hmm yes sir
I started hormone a little company there
and 83 middle of 83 when you say your
own company your own drug smuggling
company or some other kind of code mr.
Asser I bought several aircraft and and
what are the business what kind of craft
did you buy well at first when I
purchased was they are twin Comanche and
that had 320 320 340 gallons of fuel at
a 3,000 nautical mile range and had an
Omega system which is a global
navigation system in it is this is this
an airplane you bought from a
Pennsylvania company yes it is this is
Pennsylvania company was called air
America that's correct
and what kind of planes did they have
where America I was an aircraft
modification business long-range fuel
engine modifications and that that sort
of thing it was a place where people who
wanted to have their aircraft modified
went did you use this modified Comanche
for more drug flights now yes sir I did
hey for cocaine flights yes sir
where to where from Columbia to the
Middle District of Florida where were
you operating out of Lakeland during
this 1983 period Lakeland Florida now
were you ever tracked by DEA or others
during this period of time
no okay now you talked about Richard
Healey you knew Richard Healey was
involved with flying narcotics correct
correct
was Richard Healey also involved in
assisting the Contras in Central America
yes sir
in what way was he assisting them I
don't know that it the extent in which
he was assistant assisting the Contras i
he never really elaborated on that he
was very closed mouth about a lot of
things that he did or maybe I just
didn't ask any questions
Richard and I had you know done a lot of
things together we've blown money from
out to the Bahamas together and one time
in 83 he came to me and we flew a load
of grenades and some ship mines to Illya
pango let me let me go through that in
greater detail had you ever flown guns
anywhere before
on occasion nowhere had you'd flown guns
do to Colombia and in whose airplane did
he fly guns to Colombia George's Morales
what did you do with the guns you flew
in Colombia well I just got there and
off loaded and unloaded on the
contraband the marijuana or whatever and
came back now the guns that you flew
came from where you flew out of Florida
yes sir all the guns that came out of
Florida out of opa-locka right at
George's office what kind of guns do you
recall well I'm not a gun expert senator
or uh ar-15s pistols ammunition that
sort of thing how would this be packaged
for the flight in their cases and
mobsters and stuff like that yeah I mean
and you could fly what about 2,000
pounds or oh I could and those occasions
going to Columbia I never had quite that
much I'm anywhere from five hundred to a
hundred maybe a thousand pounds so you
flew guns down out of Florida did you
have a permit no you know where the guns
came from no you would load the guns on
the plane fly down to Colombia drop off
guns pick up drugs is that accurate well
I didn't load the aircraft Jairo Plata
would load it and I would come to the
aircraft it would be loaded there they
don't know what kind of aircraft was
this panther you flew the panther down
you landed at a strip in Colombia mm-hmm
and once the guns were out was something
else put in the plane yes um marijuana
are quaaludes and you flew those back
yes to where the great great Harbor key
and while you were engaged these flights
were in what period of time but those
flights weren't during 1982 that would
say shortly thereafter Richard Healey
invited you to go on a flight to illah
pango Air Force Base in El Salvador yes
that's great when was that and I think
was May of 83
can you describe how that came about
well George had brought up the Georgian
company I don't know how I went six or
eight Brazilian registered dc-3s OC 47
and he sold them and and used if you
have more have you I wasn't involved and
all that but Richard and I had flown to
get a considerable amount and we were
close friends and he asked me if I
wanted to take a trip to nearly a Pingo
and I said sure I said what does it pay
I mean I was into getting paid for my
work and
he said on about 300,000 I said you know
you'd give me two and you take one I'll
go he said it's a deal so I met him in
opa-locka that morning and went through
the aircraft with him aircraft was
already loaded with grenade launchers I
didn't look to see what it was I mean I
later found out that's what it was but
when you say you later found out when
did you find out well when I got down
there well you're offloaded so you
actually saw a grenade launchers being
offloaded yeah m79
about forty of them and this was in what
kind of aircraft dc-3 how did you manage
to land flying from where you flew a
till upon go well we left from opa-locka
and got into Boca Chica I'd say around
noon or the afternoon mocha Chico's
Naval Air Station not in the keys and
there were people there waiting for us
knows there's a Naval Air Station Naval
Air Station open/closed well I think it
was kind of a reserved base at the time
but there were military aircraft on the
ground you landed there yes and did you
have a flight plan clearance of any kind
no and then where'd you go no we left
Boca Chica and went to Ilya pango what
did you load at the base at Boca Chica
ship mines and I was given name aluminum
tube had some maps in it and I manila
envelope as I recall I had the name
Chris on it and I was instructed Richard
was instructed and I was staying there
with him to deliver this to Chris
Elliott mango and that when we met there
we'd be led to the place called the Aero
Club which was on I could recall it's on
the southwest side of the field the Aero
Club at the illah Pengo base right okay
who met you at the Ella pango base well
uh a truck medicine and we were when we
got out and then there was a guy the
name of Chris they got the envelope and
the maps well Chris El Salvadoran no he
was an American
he's American he identify himself to you
no I didn't make other than he was Chris
did you have any conversation with him
he asked us if we want to go to the
hotel and I talked to Richard about it
and we've we said all we want is gas
No did you know who Chris worked for or
who he represented no I didn't know no I
had some assumptions but I didn't know
did Richard Healy tell you who he worked
for no your assumption was what that he
was a department defense or CI or
something like that
what made you assume that well after
having been on the ground for so many
years and working in the Bahamas and in
Columbia and all out of different places
and hanging out with George Morales and
seeing all these things came down it was
just a normal thing to assume what kind
of truck was this that picked up these
weapons a large green military truck as
I recall yeah and they had to the ship
mines were loaded forward between the
grenade launchers they had a difficult
time stack him in there and getting the
netting around them and securing them
and and so they took him out you know by
hand scoot him down the aircraft and and
out the door and loved him in the truck
how many people were offloading there
were five or six guys in it were they
American or else oh they were Spanish
speaking El Salvador as I suppose in
uniform yes and was this at an isolated
part of the base mmm it was down past
the terminal it's pretty isolated as a
military it looked like it was all
military there do you say your interest
was in getting fuel and leaving well
that was my interest yes did you in fact
do that yes we got fuel about 6:00 in
the morning
and where did you go to straight to a
little town in northern Colombia called
Rio hotcha is just east of Santa Marta
about 40 50 miles what did you do in Rio
hotcha we landed and fuel the aircraft
and were people waiting for us what kind
of people Colombians what was the
purpose of that landing we picked up a
load of marijuana and
departed as soon as possible to great
Harbor key that was all arranged
I mean I knew I was everything he was
going to come down before I went how did
you know everything was going to come
down because Richard gave me the flight
plan so how much marijuana did you load
onboard this airplane understood later
was 6000 pound so you fly whose airplane
wasn't well it was the George's airplane
it was this airplane used regularly in
the supply of King when was this
airplane used in drug trafficking the
aircraft had had a sticker on an island
okay it was customs our DEA or even the
FAA it could have been FAA sticker but I
do recall that they had it had had a
sticker on the aircraft it was grounded
for some reason at one time another you
don't know so somebody had to arrange to
to release the aircraft to go do what it
did how did you happen to notice that
was that unusual to you or well that
particular aircraft had some pretty good
radios in it all all the ones that he
had that was the only one that had
decent radios in it I do recall that
much about it you remember the kinds of
radios that Martin do you remember the
kinds of radios mmm I think one had a kr
85 which is a king it's not the best
king but it there's a good ADF and and I
had a couple of uh always know I think
with Marco radios the small aircraft
radios but they worked fine
where did you notice the sticker on the
left side of the fuselage in the rear
past the door there was a cargo type
door had the double hinged door on it
now
now let's be precise about the period of
time again if we can do you recall when
this was 1983 1983 and remember what
month I am pretty sure it was May now
subsequent to that did you have occasion
to fly again for George Morales
yes that's Leone different occasions for
him miscellaneous things made a few
trips to Colombia for him were those
narcotics trips again yes this is during
83 84 83 and I didn't I don't think I
flew for him in 84 I didn't run into him
again until July of 84 did you in fact
earn $200,000 for that flight you
describe Dilip Ango I guess I did hmm is
that more than you would earn for normal
drug flights usually a dc-3 load pays a
hundred thousand yeah
consider me more now after the flight
with Richard Healey you were also at the
same time flying your own cocaine
flights is that accurate I started right
after that so you were beginning to make
even better money feed herself correct
that's correct I had two partners my
function was a handle the aircraft and
and and trying to pilots at that time
and they didn't want me flying anymore I
mean so I had to hire pilots who didn't
want you flying my partners
why because I was too very well
otherwise now did there come a time when
you lost a flight
I guess April 84 how did that happen
well the guy was caught on the ground
where the driver was caught and Glades
County in Florida yes sir what were the
circumstances it was being caught he was
trying to get out or come in well he had
the load in the truck and he was driving
out I I didn't know the guy and so I
don't know all the circumstances on that
all I know is I got home at one o'clock
in the morning I got a phone call and
they say we lost the load
and so I just packed my bags and locked
my doors and left you let me know what
the situation their circumstances why
where none of my people got busted I
mean the pilots got away and we're
security aircraft and at this point you
decided that you were going to retire
for the second time yes ma'am because
well because I didn't want to work
anymore I was too risky okay now we're
gonna come back but we're gonna take a
brief recess and come back and talk
about the George Morales and Costa Rica
trips after the recess we'll take a
15-minute recess stand in recess 15
minutes the Senate Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on terrorism narcotics and
international operations will resume
testimony in just a few minutes hearing
will come back to order counsel I
neglected to do this at the early part
and I apologize not because I wanted to
ignore you but would you just identify
yourself for the record
Sheldon llaves I'm from Miami Florida
I'm an attorney for mr. Batson you've
been representing him for some time
since 1984 thank you very much
appreciate it
now mr. Bester you said just before the
break that there came a time when you
lost a flight and the result was that
you got a little nervous about the
operation and you essentially retired
for the second time from the business is
that accurate that's a concern where did
you go to during this second retirement
I went to Hawaii how long were you there
for
I stayed there until July of what year
of 84 okay and it's some time did George
Morales call you yes he did what did he
call you for can you pull the mic a
little bit close to you there just if
you didn't he told me he needed had
something for me to do that was very
important did he explain to you what it
was as best he could over the telephone
we were very cautious about the phone
and he said it if I would come back how
that he could I could be very beneficial
in helping him get out from under his
indictment hey you know this time you
knew that George Morales was indicted is
that accurate yes sir
and George specifically said you could
help me get out from under my indictment
that right so did you fly back to
Florida I guess I did what did you do
when you got to Florida I met with
George and he gave me the rundown on the
whole thing what did George say to you
about the whole thing he said that he
had made a deal with CIA to supply them
with money and with assistance and that
he wanted me to fly some guns and
ammunition and stuff like that
down to the Contras and and bring some
contraband back hey you're absolutely
positive about this this is what George
Morales said to you oh yes he gave me
the general rundown that this is what
was happening yes what was your reaction
to that I said what give me the details
you know what is it you need done i i i
didn't really like i didn't want to do
it but i always loved and respected
George because he took me in and he
trusted me when I was like an orphaned
you know and so one good turn does
another and loyalty is something that we
all learned at respect in our lives and
so he gave me the rundown this situation
they didn't seem to be too difficult and
seemed to be covered and
and I always took George for his word I
mean and many times I was amazed that
some of the things that he said would
take place that actually took place and
so over the years and through
experiences where you risk your life in
other people's hands you eventually
learn to trust people and especially
when you're handling large sums of money
and you know in the millions of dollars
and there are transacted and held in a
parking lot and it's not like the
business world whereby you have to have
contracts and then you still might get
taken advantage of I mean our business
was a business where your word is your
bond and so not to elaborate too much he
gave me the rundown on what he wanted
done and it seemed pretty simple to me
and so I agreed to do it was this the
first time that you'd heard mention of
CIA or Contras from George yes it wasn't
something that was generally carried on
in conversation or you sit around the
office to talk about I would say I knew
that Georgia had connections in the past
I never had talked to him about it and I
knew I can't say that I knew I suspected
that he had some connections with some
government officials at time-to-time and
did you then agree to do this flight yes
sir
okay when did this flight take place I
think in July was July of 84 sometime
summer late summer you know mid summer
what kind of airplane did you use the
first time was a Cessna and the second
time was a panther and where did the
flight originated from the first one was
out of Fort Lauderdale what was loaded
into that flight that particular flight
had an m60 machine gun
other m16 guns as I recall I didn't see
any like any new packaging it was a
looked like it was put together
I miss package pack is neatly but it
wasn't like you know right from the
factory time stuff and this is in what
kind of airplane
a Cessna 402 B now if this was packaged
how did you know what was in the
packages because I had to go in the back
door and climb over the stuff it didn't
have a pilot's door in there front of
the aircraft
you knew identified it by the packages
or you actually saw well when I
offloaded it I got to see most of what
was there there was some c4 explosive
you know plastic explosive this was
loaded at the Fort Lauderdale Florida
Airport that's where I picked up the
aircraft during the daytime no I left
about midnight who left with you Tito
who is Tito I he had flown with me
several different times in the past when
I worked for George he was a Colombian
young fellow who was a trustee of George
you flew from Fort Lauderdale you have a
permit for those weapons that you left
the country with I no sir no of course
not you had no paperwork no you took
those weapons and flew to where I flew
to Costa Rica to the ranch of one mr.
John Hall did you know who John Hall was
not until I met him at the year and his
Airport had you ever met him previously
no I haven't ok can you just take a
moment to walk over to the map and
identify the exact location that you
landed at on this first flight in Costa
Rica yes sir
is that an identified strip on that
flight map
why don't you come back to the
microphone so you can speak and identify
that the place that you just identified
is actually an identified strip on that
map which says what John Howe it's a
small circle showing an airstrip is that
accurate yes that's part of his ranch
it's on his ranch it's right on the
river had you ever been there before
that's right Helen how did you and that
was where you were instructed to land
yes he left at midnight what time did
you arrive there well I would say
probably 7:00 in the morning when I
neared the coast of Costa Rica after I
picked up the vor out of San Jose I was
about 8,000 feet and the Sun was coming
up and so I just send it down there was
a slight overcast
once they broken just scattered about
1,500 feet
I stayed above that until a loss to vor
over the mountains from San Jose and
then I went to my chart that I had of
that area and went directly to the strip
by following landmarks when I was about
10 minutes out I called them on a
frequency that I had and they replied
and so I went to that strip and can you
describe the strip to us well when I
when I entered the pattern to going to
the strip I flew south of the strip over
a bridge which was one of my landmarks
and there there's a bend in the river
two sharp bends in the river actually I
circled west of the airstrip and when I
first saw it over a pasture and I made a
right-hand pattern and landed in a strip
his trips a little over 3,000 feet long
with a what is known as a dogleg that
kind of curves to the west on the north
end and there's some bushes on that end
of this trip the strip runs right along
the river
North End is right on the river the
middle of the strip is a problem 100
yards or so from the river to kind of a
big sandbar that extends down to the
river and several small trees there's a
road that runs down the center of the
strip
well actually it's over on the west side
a fence on the west side as I recall I
landed it tax it to the end he was there
they say he a John Hall and some blond
headed guy younger fellow and two Latins
were there any vehicles around as I
recall there was a Japanese Datsun truck
or something like that with a funny
thing on the back of it and there was a
big truck that we offloaded the weapons
into you know like a ton and a half
truck or something when you got out of
the aircraft and stopped the engines did
did he identify himself to you how did
you know yes I walked up to him shook
his hand introduced himself introduced
myself what he looked like he's an older
guy about 60 65 bald-headed I think he
had blue eyes um about 200 pounds I
guess maybe a little about 200 pounds
and about my height maybe a little bit
shorter and one was gonna say like hey
you know okay
now identified his pictures and you have
a conversation oh yes we talked about he
said he was from Indiana that had been
down there for a few years 10 or 15
years something like that
did you help offload the weapons no I
did not I stood there while they were
being offloaded but I didn't have to
these other guys did it I just stood
there you know protect the aircraft and
watch the aircraft that was mine you saw
them being offloaded yes how long did
that operation take oh about an hour and
a half we didn't get in a real big hurry
and we had to he adds the gas was there
in barrels he said he had a truck but
had some of the kind of fuel on it so we
often pumped out of the barrels had a
nice pump and filter and the works
so I filled up not only used about two
hundred and thirty gallons or something
like that going down there indeed you
get introduced to the blond haired
person no I did not after the guns were
unloaded was something loaded into the
airplane
oh yes I loaded about seventeen duffel
bags and five or six two-foot square
boxes in the aircraft what was in the
duffel bags coca cocaine and in the
boxes cocaine it was John hull there
while you loaded it in yes he was did he
or anybody explain you what you were
loading or did you know I knew how did
you know because I was told before I was
I left then I would be bringing coke
back I mean you know in Georgia would
send me out to I mean I knew what the
risk and Bob and what was involved
before I took the job how much were you
getting paid for that job well we didn't
really discuss it I mean we went into it
and and George says well I'm doing it
for nothing really aces I'm just doing
it for nothing and and you're the only
pile that I know that can bring it all
the way back in and you know and he said
if you have any problems when you come
back in there'd be somebody to cover for
you I said don't worry I won't have any
problems and he said well there'd be no
problems today everything's covered and
you won't have any problems
what do you mean everything is covered
or there'll be somebody there to cover
for you well you know if the customs are
DEA followed me and when I landed
aircraft I wouldn't have any problems I
mean I would they wouldn't bother me had
he ever said anything like that to you
before no had that been true of any of
your other flights as a drug smuggler no
were you surprised by it did you ask him
what he meant no actually I wasn't
surprised by it because I knew that that
George was a anti-communist as our most
Colombians so the cartel and people like
that are definitely anti-communist - I
don't suppose their world would function
too well in a communist world as
strictly I think
it was movement this drug business so
and George has never lied to me
George is a kind of guy if he tells you
the sun's not coming up tomorrow you can
place your bet on it you know now with
respect to the cartel that you just
mentioned did you have occasion to meet
Barry seal you know already my on
several different occasions you know he
was an apple guy named a little guy but
I felt like some of the people that he
knew that he was playing both sides and
I had been told that so when I see him
coming I'd usually go the other way
where did you first meet Barry seal the
first time I met him was in Nassau and
you meet him subsequently yes I run into
him one time in Miami and another time
at and up in Pennsylvania we're at
Pennsylvania here America and where'd
you say played both sides what was your
understanding of what Barry seal was
involved in that he was with him
involved with the CIA our DEA but CIA
was the indication that I got and did
you come at some point to you mentioned
something about the cartel and its
support did you learn anything from your
friends in the Cuban community or
elsewhere about cartel support of the
Contras oh yes this a lot of the Cubans
that I worked with were Marielle and a
lot of them were they a fixed type
people you know went long ways back and
they were fervent anti-communist that's
what would that they were into and of
course the ones that I knew were
smugglers those are the only people that
I knew I didn't know anybody outside
that type of those type of people and
we're those smugglers at that time
assisting in any way that you knew of
only by I can surmise but nothing that I
know are there actually a witness no
nothing that you saw no sir
but thing
you heard oh yes sir okay now how long
did it take to load the flight with the
cocaine ten minutes then what did you do
when I walked around the aircraft sir
mine looked at his airstrip I had doubts
about his trip so we after we gassed and
loaded aircraft on I we pushed the
aircraft back actually tied to tied a
rope on the back of it as I recall now
and we pushed it back to the road in the
center of the strip and it hooks
directly down the strip was a building
so I had to go over west of the building
and the grass hadn't been motor very
well there it was kind of tall and but
anyway I backed up as far as I could and
then I ran the in tubs rains it ran the
engines up had an extra 75 80 yards
there you know and I got a pretty good
roll and put the flaps down about
halfway down the strip pull the aircraft
off the ground just as it broke ground
and pulled the gear up and you know I
made it alright
and I turned across the river and headed
out but it wasn't that was it kind of
hairy he flew back to where I was coming
back to supposed to come back into Fort
Lauderdale Executive and I ain't got
cold feet started thinking about it so
when I got back why did you get cold
feet well I just never had I was always
been very cautious and I never had gone
back into an airport in the United
States to a controlled field always
landed in the middle of fields in the
middle of night with night-vision
goggles on all parameters and and
everything was covered and police were
paid off and everything was saying you
know together and this this was a little
bit out of my yeah this was a bold
daylight supposedly cleared to land and
France but George had informed you right
well yeah
but you got cold feet notwithstanding
that right so I have my own operation in
Lakeland I had a hangar there so I had
enough fuel when I got back so I just
went on the Lakeland and I've loaded
their coke in my van and had Tito drive
it back to Miami and I kept 20 kilos for
my my my part subsequent did that did
George Morales ask you to do anything
else for it in what regard senator I
mean after that after that flight yes a
week or ten days later so I did another
one and this time I used the panther
after explaining to Georgia the 402
wasn't the machine for that job and
especially out of that strip and that if
that guy was going to be in that kind of
business he needs to have a better strip
and I had a coordinates for these trips
and also I had a map with a circle
around it and the alternate when I went
down the first time was lost on us and I
hadn't seen the strip but I knew sean
has a strip right near the John Hall
strip well probably ten or ten miles or
so away maybe a little further of the
list you know how to spell I shot us la
la NOS you know and it's a lowland area
near as I found out now it's The Voice
of America towers it's about I'd say
three quarters a mile from the towers
east you know give or take a quarter
mile or so let's let's go back to the
beginning of what airport did you leave
from this time I left from overlocker
opa-locka Airport that's correct
where was the plane loaded it was loaded
right in aviation activities right and
right there in his in his hangar you
know at George moralis hangar right when
I got there it was pulled outside and it
was loaded to the ceiling that that was
a good load it had a pilot's door on it
so I just got in it Tito went with me
again
and we departed about 11:30 12:00
o'clock that night what was this load
about the same in configuration
small arms no ammunition I know awful
there's a lot of small arms you know
again did you have any permit or any
paperwork for that I think there were
some mines I think there were some mines
yet clear that was George but I believe
there were some land mines or something
there I would come and you again the
answer on the paperwork no permits no
permissions no sir no permits no
permission did George say anything again
this time about where you should land
and where you should return to yeah I
think he did he was supposed to come
right back to overlocker
in this taxi up to that hangar no
problem did you then fly down to John
Hall's ranch I didn't go to John Hawes
home place I went to this other strip
called leshawna's and when I got there I
called and and that's where they were
they were there they and they being who
John huh and who else and two Latins
just John Hall in two Latins as I recall
there was a pickup truck setting up the
road I mean this is the first time I
brought that out but I saw a truck
sitting up the road there I don't know I
don't know who was in it but there was a
truck sitting up there wrote about it
it's around this trip just north what
time of day did you arrive this time I
got there early in the morning at the
same time what did this trip look like
this trip was in the middle of a lowland
area there were no trees and there were
tropical trees across the road on the on
the south end of the strip
I believe this trip laid Southwest North
East to the southeast this trip were
some low-lying Hills there was four
towers directly west of the strip there
was a road that runs south of the strip
around to the north
whose red eye looked like clay or
something
there were drainage ditches cut
perpendicular to the airstrip on both
sides as I said before there are no
trees around that I can recall you said
you recalled some towers
yes sir and there were towers Wester
there where were the towers how far away
I'd say about 3/4 of a mile what kind of
what what sort of towers very tall
towers maybe 2 or 300 feet tall how many
four of them do you know what they were
there Voice of America when you land it
did you again have a discussion with mr.
John hull
yeah just hi how you doing did you
supervise the offloading no again I
stood there while I was offloaded the
John hull supervise the offloading no he
just stood back and they took care of
everything the two Latins right okay
and where were the did you load anything
into the plane after that I guess I
loaded cocaine in the plane were the
same configuration except this time
there wasn't any boxes it was all in the
duffel bags
how many duffel bags I would say
probably 17 or 15 17 each of them held
about 30 kilos I I estimated around 500
kilos and when when you land it where
was the where were the duffle bags at
the time you were doing the offloading
they were in the truck they had it had a
different truck with a peeling truck
there with had a compartment in it and
that's where the most of the bags were
who loaded the bags into the plane and
they were handed to me and I stacked
them so you could load them correctly
yes ma'am and again the total load was
how much approximately 500 kilos value
of those 500 kilos wholesale at that
time well wholesale goes all different
levels uh some people say it was 20,000
and other people were hosting for 35,000
depends on who and wearing a tequila
yeah per kilo yes sir
and you had 500 kilos yes so a low-end
25 20 thousand high-end of 35,000 right
at that point in time that point yes
you know where that cocaine came from no
I would know precisely where he came
from but it was like all the cocaine up
I picked up in Colombia it was a package
the same way
subsequent to your flight once you've
gotten back did you hear something about
where that cocaine had come from or one
of the loads that you had picked up from
John Hall's ranch I don't understand
what you're getting at there yeah did
you learn anything about the about what
might have taken place with respect to
mr. hull and one of those cocaine loads
oh are you talking about the kidnapping
and stuff well I'm asking you it I had
heard something about that but I heard
about that after a long after that I I
did these two loads with how long after
I since I've been arrested no since I
ran into Georgia after all this came out
that's when I found out about it
just for the record because there are
others who have testified to this I'd
like to know what it was that you heard
I just heard that uh that John Hall had
ripped off some a coke off of a boat or
something or a plane is something that
sunken and the people knew he had it and
they kidnapped one of his kids in order
to get it back or something that's
basically I don't know all the details I
mean just in passing conversation do you
know where you had that passing
conversation no sir it must have been
down at MCC it's been a while
the record should so show that
record should show that the same story
has been told by both Jose bland own and
and mr. Floyd Carlton who was one of
general Noriega z' pilots who testified
to it in some detail to what took place
do you know fort Colton I know sir I
don't I know of him you've never met him
another I would call no I've seen his
picture I don't think so let me let me
at this point in time introduce into the
record
this is an unclassified now unclassified
letter from the Department of the
Treasury
US Customs Service a letter from
Rochelle Lopez to mr. Ralph Martin
Department of Justice Public Integrity
attorney in 1986 my staff released a
report in which many of the details
though some of them sketchy but many of
the details of the story we are hearing
today as well as other allegations were
laid out and set forth in considerable
detail the majority of those allegations
perhaps 95% of them have now been proven
and carried out through the iran-contra
committee select investigation in
addition to the testimony before this
committee over the course of the last
months however when that report was sent
down there prior to the iran-contra news
being made public a check was run on our
report and in the letter it says as
explained the data provided in senator
Kerry's report was cross-checked with
the criminal indices of the Treasury
enforcement communications system and
headquarters files in editions customs
officers of enforcement in Miami in
Atlanta were contacted for your
information Tec s which is the
enforcement communication system records
are indexed by name and other
identifying data TECs query of the names
furnished that is in our report resulted
in 21 matches there were however
numerous instances in which matches
could not be refined as they were too
many records in the universe for example
the name John hull resulted in 293
possible matches consequently without
further identifying data we are not be
able to determine if
record exists for some of the persons
named subsequent to this a subsequent to
learning that mr. halls name had turned
up 293 times
this was classified and no further
investigation was made mr. Hall was
continued to permit to operate with
impunity in fact to the point that he
filed false affidavits with the United
States attorney concerning this senator
and our investigation while continuing
that to work with agencies of the United
States government mr. Hall has been
under subpoena by this committee for I
think eight months and he continues to
avoid presenting himself to this
committee so many questions are raised
by the entire set of circumstances
surrounding mr. Hall's activities in the
region as well as in these events which
have been set forward here and I
personally am disturbed by the fact that
these allegations have sat out there for
as long as they have with as little law
enforcement follow-up and investigative
effort and enough said on that mr.
Batson or let me come back to this
second flight you loaded with narcotics
and you flew back to the United States
correct
okay was that your last drug flight
that's the last one a different George
did you make any money off that flight
no yes I made about 360,000 you say it's
the last flight you did for George
that's correct
did you do some more flights for
yourself yes I left and went back to
Hawaii
and I had met this lady and had fallen
in love and and we were going to be
married and and we're back in Hawaii and
I had another friend call me and
I made me an offer and I couldn't refuse
it and so that's I was subsequently
arrested in busted is this this next
offer was another drug flight yes okay
from where to where from Columbia to
Lake City Florida what kind of aircraft
a panther now this flight took place
when November 13th and 14th of 84 and
you were arrested when at that time the
14th at the airport I know I got away
from the airport but I was subsequently
apprehended in the city and incarcerated
and you were indicted for for four
counts and conspiracy to import cocaine
that is the sentence that you're now
serving yes sir I received 15 years for
that it's less ten years special for all
and then later went back to Miami when I
got there I pleaded guilty to the bond
jumping and the case that I had in Miami
that was then at about 10 years old
and received a consecutive sentence on
top of my 15 so your total sentence
you're serving now is what 27 years and
two months and you did in fact marry
this woman that you met yes I did and by
previous marriage you have kids do you
not yes sir I have five children
now you still own a farm in Arkansas no
sir I don't
and there was a period of time in your
life when you were in Arkansas as a crop
duster that you were involved in a lot
of activities isn't that accurate yes
sir supported candidates for office
campaigns I was you know more active in
my community and kids I grew up with and
played ball with and against a new theme
of my life I was president of JC's we
had a nice JC Club in those days I was a
County coordinator for our senator Dale
bumpers at the time I was also on
executive committee the young Democrat
Club and I was and when Rockefeller ran
I was in college I was an Executive
Committee of the Republican Party and I
was always interested in civic things
you know a good citizen as a matter of
fact my political views in those days
were somewhere to the right of the John
Birch Society has where most of my
friends in those days now mr. Bester let
me come back to a couple things I'd like
to get out and let me just offer you the
opportunity here because I you know what
you've said is very important testimony
and it's very significant and obviously
you've pointed some heavy fingers in a
few directions is there anything in here
that's its Shadid something you want to
change anything you feel ought to be
restated or anything that you somehow
are uncomfortable with having said it
mmm no sir none whatsoever I wish I had
been more I wish I were been in a
situation where I could have kept notes
and times and dates and places and you
know I've often wished I could have done
that but in my business that was not
able to do that the one of the things
I'd like to get at slightly outside of
the other subject there's the whole
notion of the efforts to try to
one or two other questions if I can do
you have current feelings about what's
happening in Central America do you have
any political feelings about the war I'm
a senator I I somewhere with inside of
me I have a deep appreciation of of my
country its history the Constitution
what it stands for still move my soul
considerably after when you know
standing on one side of the fence
looking at it at a situation it looks
one way and you're going the other side
you look at it it looks another way so
do I have any feelings about it I think
that with the proper leadership and and
the genuine caring and with some common
sense all of these things in Central and
South America could have been avoided a
long time ago after all they are you
know connected to us and so I am NOT a
policy maker and I'm not a politician I
understand that I'm not trying to ask
you to go into that but just you know in
a short sort of answer were you
personally supportive of the Contras do
you dislike the Sandinistas did you feel
like you were taking sides or was it
irrelevant to you well I was sympathetic
for the Contras yes now one last area I
just want to ask you about the question
of evasive tactics flying all these
flights 1983-84 were conscious of the
drug problem in this country we're
spending money on enforcement and
interdiction you seem to fly in and out
with fair impunity you know how are you
able to do that well I made it a science
I had knowledge and background
electronics and electronic
countermeasures which means knowing how
I know the fingerprints our radar how
radar
and that sort of thing and so I spent
time in my aircraft and and with my
detecting devices I even built radar
detectors and sold them and we would I
would go them down the coast
I wasn't too concerned about the East
Coast of Florida it was pretty easy but
you had to come through an array a net
of surveillance that somewhere along the
line you might be detected and and
followed in so if you really wanted to
come in incognito at any time of the day
really I all you need to do was I'd be
able to fly below the horizon under the
radar come up into the blind spot
between the radars and then as you get
in near shore always try to be having a
hitting that is southerly instead of
coming from the from the south be coming
from the north and you just penetrate I
had my aircraft painted dark green and
the windows were tinted so you couldn't
see any aircraft and I had tape numbers
I just take the numbers off and I tried
to come in about 30 minutes before dark
and I was unable to do that by having an
Omega system on my aircraft RL or an but
Omega was very nice and I could pinpoint
myself within 50 feet anywhere on the
earth and fly accordingly and so it was
very simple to do I have one of my first
flights I came in on the East Coast and
just to test my theory and I'm I had the
good fortune of picking up and the
customs what they call the citation or
what the infrared does that device on it
and I don't know if the egg wax was
tracking or not I think it was and then
I had two aircraft the one on each
wingtip escort me and from east of
andros they picked me up come in through
the pass one word passed down over 80
and I just came in my computer set and I
just
about 30 minutes after sundown over
right at Miami Beach and I lost them I
did a couple of times how did you lose
them that particular time I think I came
in went between the condominiums and
glue down the Inland Waterway there it's
very dark listen to him on his scanner
what what they were doing and I wasn't
too sure about to a black so I went on
out to the International Airport and as
I said yeah my aircraft was dark green I
[Music]
fell up under an aircraft that was on
ILS and he was about 800 feet or so I
just pulled up under him for the fun of
it
and following him down the runway and
when he landed I just pulled up over him
and flew down the runway and buzz the
tower and and went over to the beach and
blew on up north you know no big deal
was there an occasion that AWACS did
pick you up yes my last trip was that
they tracked me this one I knew someone
had probably had an informer somewhere I
mean I suspected it at that moment when
I left at Columbia and I was being our
own drag being tracked by AWACS and so I
just went out and flew to Haiti and then
I went down over Haiti I went through
the valleys and over bike a patient and
then I flew on the water through a
thunderstorm out to greater nagua
and I stayed east of the islands about
20 foot off the water below the cliffs
all the way up through the chain of the
islands and I listened to them on my
scanner and uh I they lost me and they
didn't pick me up and I later found out
the informant in my case was in Ricky
Lopez or Henry Lopez you were arrested
through an informant operation yeah my
old friend Henry Lopez was the informant
and as a matter of fact he still owes me
a million dollars maybe I was whining
you know me but uh
he and I wrote Plata so he knew that
there were supposed to be 500 kilos on
the plane and he and he wondered why
there was only at 300 pounds so anyway
he was the one that did it you know
Here I am are there occasions you've
come to know the informant world and the
smuggler world obviously both of them
very well do you know of occasions where
informants are working both sides while
informing yes I know of several maybe
five different groups that are involved
I can't give you exact specifics on it
maybe if we had a lot of time perhaps
but I know of one specific group that I
had worked with and that's Henry Lopez
and reuleaux Pez has been smuggling
since as I now understand he was working
with him in 81 since Kojak went to work
for them but I didn't know at the time I
was working with him that he was an
informant and George always said he was
but George was we all have our
paranoia's and one or two final
questions as we try to deal with this
issue of the drug war and we're trying
to allocate money and decide where it
goes and how to do it obviously one of
the things people keep looking at is is
a multi-front effort enforcement
interdiction education and so forth
you obviously have a certain disdain for
the notion that interdiction is going to
be very effective can it be more
effective than it is is it necessary
that people always work through as
easily as you did well yes sir I think
that the human mind is a very ingenious
thing as you know and we have if you
count Oh Hawaii in Alaska we have over
20,000 miles of a parameter you know
almost the circumference of the earth -
in Iran and and the prophets that are in
this is very are enormous and there are
people who don't want to stop the drug
trade obviously we can see that there's
a there's emerging at the top
with the underworld and there's billions
and billions of dollars and being made
here and this is not something new as
history tells us it's been going on
since the opium wars to me is the 21st
century I'm just talking from my own
experience I'm not talking from what
somebody said frankly I'm alive and I
tried about everything and I'm fortunate
to have because I'm able to explain to
my children and I'll never have a
problem with my kids in those areas so I
think the name of the game is take the
profit out of it
legalize it edie licensed people beings
that we live in a control society we do
and we're all different make me go buy a
license and if they're caught with it
without a license and without going to
school without being educated then then
find them or do whatever we punish them
it is necessary to those people if we
bust arrest and incarcerate 4 million
people and we give each one of them ten
years which is about happening what's
about just about happened in the last 20
years for drugs and that's 40 million
years and say an average life expectancy
and in the 21st century is 80 years
divide that into four million and we
have 500 thousand lifetimes a wasted you
know and for what I want to thank you
for sharing the experiences that you've
had with us and I particularly want to
thank
to obviously take the risk which is
involved with this and let this
committee know of what's happened and I
just want you to know that the subpoena
which you're currently under will
continue to be in effect until such time
as the committee decides it doesn't need
you further with respect to this we are
going to take a ten-minute recess and
when we come back we're going to proceed
to go with the videotapes of three
Nicaraguan exiles in Costa Rica who will
testify further to some of the things
that mr. Batson has discussed and to
their involvement in this particular
sequence so we stand in recess for ten
minutes
the order let me remind people that the
evidence here with respect to narcotics
and the private aid network or the
Contras is cumulative and that what we
have heard here this morning is not the
beginning previously this committee has
heard testimony from General Paul Gorman
the United States Army Southern Command
or at one period of time who said in his
testimony quote there were fairly
sizable marijuana operations on the
southern front
Nicaragua some involving the Contras
some not mr. Gorman noted that if one
wants to organize an armed resistance or
an armed undertaking for any purpose the
easy place to get the money and the
easier places to get the guns or in the
drug world that was by way of
introduction to the problem we have had
testimony from Jose bland owned in the
course of his testimony on Noriega and
mr. Blandon testified to this shipment
of cocaine from the quote Cali cartel
that was diverted to the farm of John
hull and we've heard further testimony
regarding that here this morning mr.
Blandon also testified that sebastian
gonzales who was a contra working with
eden pastor on the southern front became
a drug smuggler in addition we heard
from Noriega 'he's former pilot floyd
Contin who is now convicted on federal
drug charges he is in the witness
federal protection program and he
testified to alfredo Caballero's
involvement in helping the Contras and
narcotics trafficking he also confirmed
the Cali cartel story with respect to
mr. John Hall in addition we've heard
from Ramon Milian Rodriguez in
considerable detail about his
involvement with mr. Georgia Morales
with his setting up the laundering of
money and so forth
there is other evidence in addition to
that but I simply want the record to
show the cumulative aspects of what has
been building here at this point in time
we're going to look at three videotaped
depositions and we're only going to see
a portion of them on October 30th of
last year I traveled to Costa Rica with
members of my personal staff and the
Foreign Relations Committee staff
including Jack Blum special counsel to
the committee on Saturday the 31st of
October we conducted depositions of
three Nicaraguans living in exile
Octavio noses are Marcos aguado and
Carole Prado these three individuals
were all members of our day the contra
force commanded by Adan Pastora that
operated in the southern part of
Nicaragua from 1982 to 1986 say czar
Octavio no say czar as the brother of
Alfredo Cesare who is one of the current
seven meander directorship of the main
contro organization we videoed those
depositions each of which was about
three hours long the depositions were
given under oath each person discussed a
wide range of issues ranging from the
funding of our day to weapon shipments
to drug trafficking say czar aguado and
prado will all corroborate certain
portions of testimony that you have
heard thus far these are as I said
edited segments the story that they tell
is a very complicated one as some have
learned that all of this is complicated
we've tried to simplify it as much as
possible by dividing the video into four
segments each segment approximately ten
minutes long after each segment I'll
give a brief narration which I hope
clarifies the chain of events as they
unfold
while these tapes do tell a clear story
that documents some of the allegations
made there are some contradictions for
example each of the witnesses denied
personally smuggling narcotic
and two out of the three point their
fingers at one of the other as a
smuggler we will be making copies of
this edited videotape available to
broadcast media after the hearing and in
addition the full nine hours of video
deposition will be made available for
anybody who wishes to see them my staff
has tried to create a tape that shows
the contradictions as well as the other
portions so that these are balanced and
in the first segment you will simply be
introduced to the individuals and learn
what their role was in the southern
front organization if we could begin the
tape
this is Senator Kerry and we are going
to take a deposition of mr. Octavia nose
says are here in San Jose Costa Rica and
I'd like to ask Miss Leslie Rowe who is
a console here in San Jose was empowered
to deliver oath to do so - our witness
thank you do you solemnly swear or
affirm to tell the truth the whole truth
and nothing but the truth
the answer to the several
interrogatories and cross
interrogatories and down the petitioners
for you thank you mr. Prado do you
solemnly swear or affirm that you tell
the truth the whole truth and nothing
but the truth
an answer to the several interrogatories
and cross interrogatories now to be put
to you miss one do you solemnly swear or
affirm that you tell the truth the whole
truth and nothing but the truth
an answer to the several interrogatories
across interrogatories not to be fit to
do that laughs you know States within
the main thicket of elevator that
elevate that in a muscular will that it
has placed a little you see contra
interrogatories case a former head of
state our good at some time though you
became the head so to speak of the
southern front Air Force is that correct
yeah go mementos there's a convicting
heavy they'll frente they'll sue till
after seven condition may convert Tal
Afar serious or a el ltimo tiempo de
hacer el segundo el comandante am
plethora I became the head of the
Southern Air Force and then I became the
second-in-command
with an investor did you become involved
didn't change the government of
Nicaragua in 1978-79 yes sir I did you
want to describe that a little bit for
us
well I began working against Somoza in
1977 mainly I was plotting with the
National some of the National charts
officers because of my criteria but
wasn't the best outcome would have been
to topple Somoza and create a soft
national unity position with the
political files on somebody National
Guardsmen officers which not all of them
were bad and in that case we will have
closed the door to the Communists
o'clock and even during the fighting
1979 you know which I was in Costa Rica
he and so in front I kept I kept that
purpose bacteria and I did plot with
many of the officers and up to a point
in which I arrange a ceasefire five days
before Somoza left in the commander's of
Samoan ocotal in order to have those
people want to deny our negotiating
table unfortunately I really don't know
what happened but all that history
instead of having that dialogue
Sandinistas to covert which something
they didn't expect really
now 1982 you left Nicaragua because you
were dissatisfied with the Sandinista
regime was there a Holy Quran o Gentiles
no go and go no comma he means
underneath the nose who simply Clara
mujer so see no controversy terrain meat
okay no sauce underneath that not with
the Sandinista regime we always terrify
that but with the Marxist Leninist
regime we
they are not Sandinistas nosotros
cream-oil Ojeda Santino no podemos a
scepter ko Saiyans and Anita we believe
in the ideals of Santino we cannot
accept that they are Sandinistas
bsicamente see a Malaysian torch until
Oh cuando la guardia nacional de
nicaragua a ballon of pointing and north
any girl was basically yes in 1982 when
the National Guard in Nicaragua blew up
some bridges in the northern part of
Nicaragua him in the Managua into the
shusui position and the Managua regime
hardened their position due to El Camino
Lexi leo quando victim being a problem
economy Quito I went on exile when I saw
the problem of the mosquitos negator
akira nakano Korea para mi see ho I saw
the possibility of war which I didn't
want for my children
no parent pure algo que ellos no prayin
I didn't want them to fight for
something that they did not believe in
he being a Costa Rica came to Costa Rica
familiar you know yesica Nicaragua
pardon me Santa to see my family which I
had taken out of Nicaragua few months
previous converse a a Kia Trujillo
compact aura through some friends here I
talked with an historic your nephew in
terrible women but uh Salva resolution
and he offered me the possibility of
getting involved in a movement to save
the revolution no para ser contra
revolution not to do the
counter-revolution porque yo girl can
you get our air and Ezer do not all
listen because I believe in Nicaragua it
was necessary to have a revolution well
I appreciate the distinction that you
drew and I think it's a good distinction
you became the chief of logistics really
for the southern front isn't that
correct
no exactamente not exactly
hey yo como se a trabajar con le Fay's
part hora en ello chant ido como
encargado comunicaciones i started to
work for the FRS for the in fast
coordinated tours person in charge of
communications material made a couple of
cinnamon territorial chain Tito October
lady to cuando preference or a path
Torah and for partisan uniforms Ravello
Kyra zoo company run army when Pastora
was receiving pressure and a part of
Ravello who was his colleague in art me
para que pase de UT yes un teaching
assistant an executive petroleum economy
historicals me llamo Pedro a
prcticamente at el momento Cato yet
recoil in he saying is a terrarium and
since then till now I have been working
with him in that endeavor
was it fair to say that you were in
charge of the records the resupply is
Carol Prado organizational skills that
the southern front needed singaporeans
ESO por que yo era prcticamente lolly a
pastor a con cada una ley de Tinto
sector a tanto political coup military
in Qatar formal are they you could say
that I was the link you could say
between Pastora and the other sectors
that were connected to it political
military it'll be a la la liga entrepot
aura e el mundo Terrier diamo until a
house who knew how Venezuela
well connect Acadia tell her what the
car support or oppose us authorize me
also the link it remains between Pastora
in the outside world the United States
of it as well Oh anyone in the outside
that wanted to be in contact with us
daughter then would have to do it
through me
segment two
in the next segment that was simply an
introduction to each of them to their
roles the next segment you'll hear how
George Morales the narcotics trafficker
became a benefactor of the southern
front after the May thirtieth LaPenta
humming and the cutoff of US aid our day
was very short of funds and was
disintegrating Marta Healy and we've
heard about from Gary bets nor the pilot
was an acquaintance of Cesare and he
told she told us a czar and mr. Popple
Chamorro that Morales George Morales
wanted to donate an airplane and cash to
pass Torah in the southern front so says
our flew back to Costa Rica informed
Pastora of that and pass Torah
instructed Cesare to look into the offer
and he flew with popota Morrel and
Marcus aguado to Miami in November or
sometime in that vicinity tomorrow
Cesare and Prado met with Morales at the
house of Marta Healy
he offered to donate a plane and the
southern front Contras at that time were
in need of hardware and funds an
arrangement was made to obtain the plane
which was in Haiti in order to deliver
the plane from Haiti to El Salvador
Morales recommended a pilot that the
pilot be aguado
Cesare was later informed that a plane
did arrive at ala pango airbase and it
was used to ferry ammunition Tula penka
airport Octavian Oh Cesare and Marcos
aguado also described a trip to the
Bahamas with George Morales and on their
return Morales and Cesare Morales asks a
czar to bring several hundred thousand
dollars through customs for him and you
will hear directly how some of this
money was laundered segment two please
it remains between Pastora in the
outside world the United States or in
his way though anyone in the outside
that wanted to be in that's Carol Prado
now sometimes during that period that
you were working with passed or you came
to meet mr. George Morales see correcto
a effect amending it any motel that is
correct exactly here in this hotel you
state the circumstances of that no act
and they will put it up in winter isn't
he
I would be extensive because it's very
interesting he parted processor and it's
a part of the whole process
the puede la gente lo contract or Adela
penka in Trenton my own authentic
Quattro after the plot against the
Pastora in LaPenta and may 30th 1985 El
Corte Liu Donati Americana
the Carissimi Maria the cut-off of the
North American aid which took place that
same day are they are the interim
process of a default - those are they
then initiated a lack of funds process
Munna theaters in Terra Co por la ooh la
la ooh Chamorro
some disintegration because of Ravello
and negro Chamorro leaving only second
le phare any to join the fdn como
consecuencia de esta gente que c'est
franais el segundo de potos Muharram
al-haram Martinez and due to the fact
that these two people left the second
man for Pastora which was Harold
Martinez left also the one the toll of
commandante de pastoris le o Segundo
commandante papa tomorrow after a
meeting at the potomac play the film our
immunity again are you some quantity or
someone after meeting at the San Juan
River then the second in command was
named butch Amado channel as the Alamo
tiempo say approximate hora a la gente
Alfredo you carry on assessor and at the
same time Pastora was approached by
I'll feel safer como
mahalia of political political allies
consequence era falta de fondo due to
the lack of funds yochelson OCHA more of
where Aloha tofu neo-cons in your Cesar
was decided to mr. shamoto should go to
the United States with mr. Cesar I will
cover fondest look for funds
supersu approximant a in media vato
septiembre la gente Quattro there could
have been more or less August September
1984 workers in your path or already saw
a Washington donde se corto totalmente
lossless hakuna central Italian
Americana where I thought I came back
from Washington a trip where the all the
aid from the Central Intelligence Agency
was cuddled caesareans in your Chamorro
after that trip mr. jamal first i don't
come uno kiss you ain't really play they
returned about 15 or 20 days later gonna
be shaky Rankin say you are you with the
news that they had gotten healthy
Appalachia more oil reserve going bomba
Brussels Papa gemoro said that he was
coming back this is a Spanish expression
with the loaf of bread under his arm
because I don't know how they don't
would you put they're coming from where
from Miami who came back tomorrow a
notary no sister Octavia no says holy
Johannes otro
you know ensear una photos they got us
together and they showed us some
photograph of you losers th immortal
cattle prod server gwei niello ro ke
remove the Moho and a choir of crazy
party they are because the rest of the
main carosone acting you know you you a
traitor cuando cuando se para normally
they see los nombres motion it's about
the track
use the names rather than the pronoun
it's Antonio una foto a lot okay Tom
Hawaii the only on Howard you may own
this a Quattro so they showed us some
photographs of Howard playing an ADC for
your incident regalo he can even areolar
say seven additional did another hole
puncher and they said that these planes
had been a gift had been given to us and
that the six additional planes were
going to be given to us Navajo da mucho
de vionnet pero se qued know your name
muy rapido well Carson I know that I
don't know much about airplanes but I
know that they're very fast airplanes
and long range
did they say where they're who was gonna
give them where they were coming from
the opinion get ready like OSA anterior
the Papa Chamorro life was a numero uno
and pollution water they said that
through wife number one of watch our
motto kept on being le pasa numeral
uppercase a war series a csoka mayo tray
which is she's also wife number two
because she divorced her and we married
her are we talking about Marta Marta
radius I know her as Mark Petraeus and
you also know that she is Marta Healy
who lives in Miami
see Marta Hilde which was all officer
Morris former wife and an old friend of
mine for more than 20 years she told me
that somebody she knew wanted to
contribute with the anti-communist cross
I was willing to be the c-46 airplane
and some cash to pass flora
she told you that here at a meeting in
no she told me that through Miami in
Miami yes you were there on business at
the time yes sir she volunteered this
information to you that's right
she came forward with that I returned to
Costa Rica
I told pastor about it and that he'll
ask me to pursue this matter and I went
to publish a motor back to Miami did she
tell you the name of the person at that
time yes she did
what was the name for George Morales
okay did you know who George Morales was
no sir
had you ever met him no sir okay both
Paul and I met more toilets on Martha's
house he showed you recall approximately
when that was I think was a wrong
November 1984 1984 I think anyway he
confirmed the offer
show me the picture of the airplane c-46
of dc-3 you know the loser singer could
you be a little more specific I mean
what were the circumstances you walked
into the house who was there he was
there anybody else smart that anyone
else what we'll jump over all myself
just the four of you listen all right
and you went there with what purpose in
mind purpose of of merely dispersal was
woody to give this airplane at the time
the troops he Diego's cut off and the
troops in the field although I knew that
are they have some ammo in the Salvador
storage there they didn't have any way
to bring it over to go into the fighting
area you know so you told Papa tomorrow
that the opportunity was there to get a
hold of an airplane and that this would
be very helpful you told pastoris
thought about past for a sport for
myself to cool I'm pursuing Leiter fine
how did how was the matter brought up in
the meeting first met we can pull one
and say listen I'm an anti-communist I
believe in the fighting against the
Sandinistas I have this airplane in
Haiti which I'm not using it I cannot
bring it
State because it doesn't have doesn't
meet the FAA requirements but we can
make a range missile you can fly that
airplane but futsal galore had you
learned anything about George Morales at
that time no sir
did Martin Ely tell you anything about
him did you know anything about his
background were you curious about it or
did you take any steps to find out
anything about his background yes I did
what did you do
I spoke to mark my token you know I told
her who's this person and that she told
me what it was yeah what is she saying
she didn't say that he was a drug
trafficker she says that it was a
businessman that he had a an airplane
business in opa-locka
that he was a world champion of Paul
Tracy and that she thought he was
involved with funny business
funny business just actually described
anything did you know what funny
business meant I I guess it yes
then what did you guess it meant I guess
I thought he was a crook and did you
know in what form you know oft but I
what did you think of that time did you
think he was doing drugs do you think he
was embezzling money from banks did you
think he was robbing banks it's not a
corrective I think you guys could be
doing 12 okay and did you and Papa
Chamorro discuss that at that time
yesterday and that prior to that Pastora
I said publicly that he had received a
couple of helicopters from drug
trafficker
I'm not proud of having this having had
this type of relationship but the
circumstances there and because in all
the conversations I was present he never
he never precondition any type of
business with him
tell me about the circumstances you felt
at that time that the cause was in such
need that it was important to get the
products you need it is that correct is
the troupe stating have boots the wolf
run barefoot Valley had me close do you
have medicine didn't have enough
ammunition to fight the Sandinistas no
putting up the big offensive there were
no cleats and I want to get killed even
sleep on Saturday these people they
wanted to a war because they love
freedom and because the US Congress gave
them the means to do something okay at
that time what arrangement did you make
with mr. Morales the only precondition
he asked was it meet with the store a
meeting with Pastoral Council did he say
where the meeting had to take place you
know he was a was also we came back past
thought about it before you do that work
was any final arrangement made with
respect to the c-46
just the principle just that he was told
to you know give that plane and he was
going to give cash to Pastora and the
president was there any doubt in your
mind where the plane had come from he
said it was in Haiti if you have an idea
and the cash did you know at that time
the cash was the result of drug
transactions well he had a computational
of a drug business and and legitimate
business what was the next step at that
point next step a [ __ ] well when
we publish a model to Miami I arrived
about week later and they pick me up at
the airport or Alice gemoro and awara
we went to the opa-locka Airport and
stea his office for Alice office he has
several airplanes there this is when
about month later 1984 yes at the end of
1984 anyway at the office we discussed
the technical part flying that airplane
and they did another pilot and that how
the airplane needed a little bit of
adjustment and cetera et cetera and were
going to be flown what was a well saved
that he made an arrangement that plane
to be flown into the elope angle
military airbase in assembler and that
was going to fly it de Morales a our
tryout
and I said why don't we go to the
Bahamas porpoise and an old pilot his
pilot and this all we can try the skills
of worked so well we did so we went to
Bimini and it was about noontime close
to noon time and we're going to be many
I will return the same day on Bimini we
went to I remember the bar or anyways to
go there
remember those let me just interrupt you
there if I can for one minute
was there a discussion in Miami prior to
that about transferring funds making
arrangements for the transfer funds no
sir
okay do you recall any discussions about
funds at that time well in general that
we needed not only the plane what
because we are the being enough money
just to just to pay for the fuel and on
the plane so you were still pushing for
cash yes okay go ahead you were saying
you went to Bimini you went to the bar
that was frequented by Hemingway that's
right and no I'm waiting on the return
about 15 years before landing he pulled
out some checks and as publisher more on
myself I said listen I'm going to get a
lot this morning to Pastora now I need
for you to to declare in US Customs this
check being a businessman in my sounds
ridiculous or stupid but at that moment
I was thought acting as a businessman
I was really house we tried to convince
this person to leave some way and that's
the truth and the check that he pulled
out was a check for $400,000 our checks
totaling $400,000 I didn't count it and
the stillness closer I know the most
several hundred thousand dollars you
knew it was a significant sum of money
oh yes got some money and it was cash I
didn't see anything no I mean it was
going to be cash right through the
transaction that was taking place right
and you knew that welcome
we landed an open look I went through
immigration let me be more clear now
what he was asking you to do was
effectively take this money through
customs for him correct well you could
say that it was what he put it is to
take this money through closed on first
floor okay but the money at that time
was coming from Morales yes and you were
taking custody of it in order to put it
through the customs process yes sir and
you knew at that time that the money was
coming from mr. Morales a drug
trafficker well he didn't say that it
was coming from him but you knew that I
knew I by the time I knew that he was
involved in drug trafficking yourself
[Music]
what was in and when you landed what
happened we went through immigration
costume I feel of an application form we
were out in 15 minutes okay well let me
show you this ask if you recognize this
as the Marcos aguado
receive equal mercy in customs for
jewelry and this did not record our
you're not presencia de Aviano el viaje
I told you before what I can aware of
see that Rebecca might be low to
Atlantica address do you recall whether
or not in the course of that trip some
checks exchanged hands
recuerda Si and si we are he didn t say
yeah he goooneee intercambio a checklist
see cuando regresamos no no intercambio
accessory otro lado yes not exchange in
death in that says our Chamorro morales
gave a check
pero si el acuerdo que cuando regresamos
a moral LEP Rio tomorrow the killing
Rosario una cantidad de niro all those
thousand new hello 1 and 1000 you know
Roy clarity American Libya in for
tomorrow but I do remember that on the
way back mr. Morales asked tomorrow to
introduce some money into the United
States supuestamente
creo que de para ayuda para comprar una
forma bata algunas cosas bird kesson
hesita is an amenity yeah I assumed that
it was to help buy boots and uniforms
and I kind of a pero nunca el dinero
creo que la mano de Morales I think it
didn't impact model at the same did he
see the checks maybe on us chickens no
well how do you know about this
transaction Allante la cabina con el
Piloto
platic ando el avin de ranch deny own I
was a planter with a pilot talking to
him about the airplane in the range of
the airplane you know I think Aero Yendo
lo que hace bien go without wanting to
hear what's going on in si mementos in
poner Mucha atencin at that time
without paying too much attention
por que tambin yo pensaba que te seor
Morales
era una tall salvation para el
movimiento anticommunist a guitar even
sooner because I thought those at that
time that mr. Morales was a bridge of
salvation for the anti-communist
movement in yourself why did why did you
think that a Yankee regal on gives any
airplane I mean no personal no Medina
cambio who's not asking me for anything
in exchange for that person running to
Lompoc Omaha leo
yo C Korea trabajar con el when we
talked a little bit more he and I he
asked me if I wanted to work with him le
hey que no tiene una trajectory a
political my PI he owned a trajectory a
military
become disabled no me permittee hacer
nada ESO que Ella Gracia la confianza
Chiapas etad me I said that know that my
political and military tragic tour in my
country I didn't allow me to do that and
but I appreciated the confidence of the
trust that he had raised on MF LEC
topple our puesta gallery he
congratulated me for that answer
in reality nian toe dlares para lo dije
que tu en Miami para que me ayudara con
Amiga and he gave me five
and he gave me $500 so that I could pay
my expenses in Miami during those five
days that was there did you have
occasion to say to someone in the CIA
that is helping and you were getting
money from him and you were concerned
about that because she knew he was a
drug dealer did you pass that
information on to somebody
yes I passed the information about about
the not the relation because most what
in my quality relation and the airplane
yes and of course I mean the the CIA
people at the American military attachs
the world
they were basically Lapine also and they
you know and any person or any plane
landed there they have to know where it
came from or whatever and they basically
said to you that it was all right as
long as you don't deal in the powder is
that correct is that a fair quote yes
now at what point in time did you learn
that mr. Morales also was involved with
drugs in kabooming Marcos guado Senor
Morales tambien mr. olivera's droga
cuando no for this vo trabajo when he
offered me work and that was during your
first trip to Miami yes if we maybe I
hear me yeah me lowly Quebec Ilocano
seeing Miami the only time I met a new
man can you describe that conversation
to us how did you how did you find out
that it was drugs
agua de Guerre que puedas quieres a
conversacin con mucho gusto Kyra drogas
hotel career Tuesday the hoenn tree
where the kale trabaja become marijuana
he let it be understood that he worked
with marijuana k-pro Lucia mucho dinero
y kellton UN organization bein Segura
there he produced a lot of money and
that he had ever
organization now none of the three
individuals testifying were aware of the
Morales weapons deals but all three had
knowledge of weapons shipments generally
to the southern front for instance
aguado stated that he only moved weapons
from an unnamed third country all three
of them provided information about the
supply process for the Contras and
according to Prado popota Moro and
Octavian Oh says brought $50,000 with
them from Morales on another occasion to
cover support for the troops Prado was
in charge of the resupply operations and
he was Pastores linked to the outside
world he describes how before the
LaPenta bombing John hulls ranch was
used as a primary site for that resupply
effort now there's nothing surprising
about weapons and supplies being shipped
to the Contras that's been documented
before on many occasions and there was a
period where one part of the network was
well known what is significant at the
end of this next segment is the point
that aguado confirms which we have
stated again and again which is that
many of the same connections air strips
and people used in the delivery of
weapons were also used in the delivery
of drugs
those how did you how did you find out
that it was drugs
anyone could work at Marcos Eduardo and
this is the end of the last segment I'm
sorry but it reasons on us here and
there's no way to kill the whole
interior of the kill trehala kun
marijuana he let it be understood that
he worked with marijuana que hace mucho
dinero he killed and even organization
being seguro there he produced a lot of
money and then he had a very safe
organization my apologies for that we're
struggling with the technology here now
also did you not arrange a number of
flights for the transport of weapons
with mr. Morales in a sorted array gloss
para la Rio fellows parrot reporter
armas de amor america cuando el senor
men amoral means thomas i never rented
it I never flew it I did see the
airplane at the Paris Airport here but
I've never you know of any weapons
shipments that were arranged or any
other kinds of shipments arranged by mr.
Morales no lowly okay super was already
near all I knew was about my what I did
Monday the European authorial vineyard
gemoro
mr. V an Assessor and mr. Jamal a
premier behave in a room in the first
strip when they came to the harem come
cincuenta medullary brought with them
$50,000 who brought the $30.00
hey your medallion benefactor they said
that it had been given by mr. Morales
the benefactor who said that a opportu
model or pajama now to your knowledge
war weapons shipments arranged from
Miami to support the activities on the
southern front
Sally aesthetic is a NH Allah
via his the Armistice Day my young
famous actress in influential Mara Tony
in falta el avin americano la presencia
el comandante a factor in Miami with the
marathon's and the lack of support in
the US government and in the presence of
the command of my story Miami became
financier the prints are our rewrapped
al mundo entero and press conferences
open press conferences which he gave to
the world allowing caribiner him a una
parada
they gave him m130 like in say 15
algunas Jana case of ending in a bunch
of the Miami and some ammunition that
sold at the gun shops in Miami a la
basic Mucha uniform in uniform extra
meal para devatas once a large number of
uniforms 3,000 uniforms 3,000 pairs of
boots personalmente Chamorro creo que
Cunha a cattle prod on being he brought
them personally I think with all for
tomorrow and I think terrible to correct
do you recall what airline or what
aircraft brought the guns you talked
about from the Florida gun stores boost
Eric where the key knows that URL hey I
don't have it Tripoli say ammunition
agendas tienda de Florida or if we love
you induce test no swearing in London
Deranian mill uniformity left mill para
devatas no it was on the airplane where
which the 3,000 uniforms and 3,000 pairs
of boots were brought you know young
girls in your Sarki language belonged to
mr. sake no creo que se o ninguna days
live I don't think it was any war weapon
or you
United States got avi nahi Adler Kings
snarky
Sarki Sark an alien an indicted arms
trafficker
well do you personally recall flying
ac-47 recorders with weapons array de
volalle say quadrant ICF deaconesses
armas mean to see probably yes
you only were younger yeah it was the
only plane available to see for example
in secretariat he know where did you fly
that from la banda no no the PI
centromeric annual pistol a pink
nickel from a Central American country
to the napping landed strip in Nicaragua
do you recall when that would have been
requited that cuando local yes
the element in the put the intro to
release umbrella gentle at probably
between October and December 1984 did
you continue to fly those flights into
1985 continuous Tennessee understood
well as a museum to such enticing
co-director principio de la gente c'
dandy Antonia Mona an absolute career
yes until early 1986 when we no longer
had anything at all to carry which a
moral a second in command from pastoral
took over all the arrangements
what was the sequence of events you
landed in Miami yes
when was that plane then dispatched tail
upon go Octavian now says I don't know I
never saw the plane myself I never seem
to play I know that the plane arriving
elope angle sometime later how did you
know that because Pope which are more
told me and they keep the charm or one
day I think I made mark was a while
after he returned from the trip
do you know who made the arrangements
for this plane to go to Ella Pango no
sir you excuse me just in just a minute
which plane are we talking about here
the c-46 that's my understanding that's
now was there another aircraft that
wound up going from Morales - hello
tango I don't know about you only are
aware of the c40 suggest you only what a
tie I saw him in a picture I saw the
plane in a picture of never seen it
really I mean I heard her say that the
plane was fairing ammo from elope and go
into the airfield of La Finca
which is indeed more than part of the
reason why that at the time was help a
historic never saw the plane because I
I mean I was not involved into into that
part in order to those areas oh wait
were there do you have any knowledge of
how the arrangements were made for that
plane to land it in Topanga
no sir you only know that it did yes
on a previous flight why don't I give
you a favor
Oh playing the weapons delivery with you
correct it's in your john-boy plan
you'll remain really Adam a small
mistake
it's correct Oh mooch wanted a mile
agility quad way before me when
approximately it stops
semantics one little gem to trace oh
maybe three the primero mesadale agility
what in the first few months of 84 okay
do you know other flights that took
place in which either money came in or
weapons no well you know of weapons that
were arranged
John Hall's farm Vasudha meant a new
record oh well Oh Antonella pink on sale
gonna be on hold
remember flights before La Finca we want
sturgeon home our uniform therapy is a
pink there is a border which is not
penka Antonella penka aero-engine whole
con nosotros she particle Cola or
interfere for La Finca John hallwas very
cooperative with us and he was very nice
to us the patella pink photo laguna
verde and after lap n times quite the
contrary Antonella pink etherium William
the elf elbow a la finca John hole
before la pink there were flights from
El Salvador nosotros to John hospital
for a polenta pictorial astora speak
with weapons present with weapon camara
Mazzini with weapons and now we come to
the very last segment and in the last
segment the three of them discussed the
question of drug trafficking according
to aguado
drug traffickers took advantage of the
panic
I mean a sentiment throughout most of
Central America he admits that narco
dollars provided easy quick money for
the troops dire needs
aguado also implies that Geraldo Duran
whose name incidentally has been
mentioned previously in testimony here
who was a contra pilot was involved in
drug trafficking Carol Prado states that
drug money was used to support the
Contra troops he also maintains that
Geraldo Duran was a drug pilot and he
mentions Jose angle Guerra as a pilot
for the cartel Prado testifies that
before the LaPenta bombing john halls
ranch may have been used as a drug
transit base say czar admits that he
knew drug money was supporting the
Contras and that while he wasn't proud
of it the Contras were desperate he also
makes the point that numerous
intelligence agencies both us and
foreign were aware that drug money was
being used to support them so we moved
to the final segment and after LaPenta
it was quite the contrary
turn it up Antonella Pincus erm well the
El Salvador a la finca on hold before la
finca there were flights from in
sovereign so to the jump hospital for a
polenta pathologist or a speak with
weapons for them with weapons
camara Messina with weapons
and you needed help
nosotros tenemos le Tom o'halleran he oh
Allah
no solo a thousand lire 12 mundo veeram
career and not only from the United
States we would have wanted this helpful
the home world medicine coalition but
without any strings attached now what
what strings did mr. Morales attached to
it if any the whole of young Eggman
oedema rally and in Brazil analytic you
see Macomb hearing otama IV having
acquired are you mystery where the a
three-minute Papa left the plane in the
hands of mr. Morales in my opinion there
was a string no estamos tratando a Casey
Sheeran cosas no political tone dfrac
political we were allowing none for
little non political things to be done
with the political guys cuando Ella the
su military combo tilde Arianna Kapus on
parle nor take our god a robot if Tom of
Caliendo condiciones when Papa talks
about provide providing few for planes
which go north with drugs then their
strings attached Nikita did Papa talk
about that I guess that I own and yes I
don't alakina than the Pope did to you
piano me tomorrow and me I have a lot of
days at the corner meeting when Papa
titania Aviano had called me they talked
about that specifically what did they
talk about okay st. enteric avionics are
important asana
to denote any mo I know Puerto 1020
corral wa e ka lehua are como steel rain
sir go through the area sir and will
provide fuel for them what players thing
is a Templeton llamo aeropuerto Ella
penka tell me my ride of Berkeley
Atlanta at that time we had a la finca
Airport in the Atlanta important what
planes would go through and get fuel
what planes you referring to drug planes
see
yes Steve are you kidding another good
we was not going to mean money for Popo
tomorrow and the effort is that what the
deal was in exchange for the fuel the
planes came through and you got scenic
it's my understanding that you also know
some of the pilots who were flying drugs
in and out in the Ender gets taken I
said to me another just be not to scare
Luna coconu ck super candor in the Rope
of the Lord we don't give where I rather
do Dan the only one I knew who he was
fine drugs because then you're invested
in me was held oh yeah yeah
Jose you ever get in a company Aero taxi
jerky and Jose Guerra we turn it up a
little bit taxi yeah and they were
flying out of the whole ranch among
other places is that correct mr. Orlando
a party the intelligent I'm very sorry
the founder you say a pair Sam but I
think of the young hole as far as I knew
they used several channels for the
patella penka loser lugar que se llama
Monaco after that ANCA they used a place
called Monaco in Clouseau a accident
they love you and I think I Ju it was an
incident of a time back John Holland
when you say they use they used both for
the drug flights and for the weapons
flights no border border and uh people
can own on the constant I can't say for
drugs because I know for certain
yes ako belong in there I assume Benito
yeah okay you all know nobody really
they put in a pink I knew that they
flied and supplies generally but after
la finca had specific I think a new
garden over the for La Finca we never
heard about trust
now you also said to mr. blonde from the
same conversation that the drug activity
revolved around Eden past Dora you knew
that but you couldn't do anything about
it
isn't that accurate call me some good
organs your
tambin dijo que ustedes actividad con
las drogas is say you are recorded in
past or appear oku stay no poda masa
nada that he couldn't do anything about
it do not know how you and also trow
cuando come in Sam la lucha do Dan
helped us when we started with the fight
with a struggle muchacho a sueldo kakora
por cada well dentro Costa Rica Hamas
dentro Nicaragua as a salaried man he
would charge for each flight that he
would perform in Costa Rica never in
Nicaragua por ejemplo nosotros que la
mojave own Mediano en Costa Rica Durango
llevar una pista for example we would
rent medium sized airplanes here Costa
Rica new run would take them to an
airstrip hello to mama yo yo si abuelo
con ARMA hacia intro Nicaragua Keir
class desu minute row and I would take
it then and a flight into Nicaragua with
weapons or whatever other kind of port
de Gracia este tipo de trabajo por la
libration de un pueblo de tipo de
entrega muy muy muy pareci Alcala him
tell narco traffic on unfortunately this
kind of activity which is for the
freeing of the people is quite similar
to the activities of the drug
traffickers do entiendo que muchas de la
conexin a Dakota license day Mucha la
forma el trabajo que nosotros abbiamo
rogue an asado para para ayudar a la
revolucion cos esteban doing and soon I
understand many of the connections a lot
of the work that we had
to help the southern probablemente
Sarang la Mina's para las finito la
droga they might have used the same two
for the traffic of drugs the same way
Elohim Akane
probablemente la misma pistas connects
even economists as Kelly podan decir de
que lo que llegar alarm apparent
authority problem in Teheran droga para
la Sunil the same connection where air
strips the same people and maybe they
said that it was weapons for them pastor
and it was actually drugs that would
later on tour the United States but you
have already confirmed privately and I
would like you to to state now it stays
y'all confuse Mallory while we kiss your
neck Erica data how aura as others have
kimono nature otros that narcotics
trafficking became confused in the
efforts to support anti-zionist efforts
can traffic Lee narcotic hos denominator
second from the Economist as well so say
or apollyon doses versus a is that
accurate
this is incorrect indicative element
undoubtedly approach are only
sentimiento anticommunist existent
centromeric encode originals are boring
in Deraa in Guatemala and Panama they
took a we took advantage of the
anti-communist sentiment which exists in
the Central American hunters and sound
right
mr. Meekin low sorrow peril narcotraffic
will dispute development in Ghana
Ramallah hind and they undoubtedly used
it for drug trafficking a food people
you know this of your personal knowledge
correct you stepped in across some
interpersonal days this year
correct yes he was from my stalino
consecuencia de like pero se Cayo - in
toto that is a consequence of the
experience that I had in all this
efficient meant F in addition to quattro
PCP virginity single especially towards
the end of 84 beginning of 85 visually
de la fere in Costa Rica where agents of
the CIA here in Costa Rica
donde lion telethia endo 8000 you led
her Peru in tomorrow where an agent of
the CIA in the United States told pin
drove Joaquin telethia n-no 8000 IDO
lady who are to the cruise where an
agent of the CIA in the United States
told up to the coup de que yo a tower in
the new controller that I was involved
in drugs
Yona would be practically to material I
practically turned into an investigator
okay
conspiracy room attack eminent Amenti
politically because I thought that it
was and it gives you hell fondler soon
it was basically a political attack and
I wanted to get to the bottom of it
okay Conoco mucho nombre tengo Mucha
informacin Tocqueville led to the I
will I reckon I'll that's the reason why
have so many names and a lot of
information because I've looked into it
okay what did you find out as you walked
into it what did you discover about the
drug trafficking among these people
Julia come career on da casa Jeff I
would say that two things happened por
una Trafficante que se acerca room aldo
passione poltica one hand two more are
the drug traffickers that approached
political groups like ad me that bamboo
they assert righto scale Aaron cierto
camouflage Nikita cobertura Sophia
trying to make deals that would somehow
camouflage or cover up their activities
love what a little loud creo que
incident the dnc Americana the other
hand I believe that there were people
from the Central Intelligence Agency
zero Trump guna compaero nuestro me
daily in the logic Amenti that they set
up traps for some of our ideological
colleagues takes about a week okay Lexi
Taro's who on either that got them
excited with dileep rima theorem gala
promethium que si Saket up I thought I
said no healthy that maybe were promised
that if pass thought I was removed they
would end up being the leader we're
calling when we talked you expressed to
me concern in retrospect that you had
dealt with Morales and you mentioned to
me at the time you justified it in your
own mind and I wonder if you could share
with us exactly what it was you were
thinking about when you realized he was
a drug trafficker and continued to deal
with them well to be absolutely honest
with you never enter into my mind of
course having anything to do with the
business but I was thinking in terms of
the security of my country
the type of fight we are against it it's
not just against the communist East
against the people that were false
ringing my processor watch The
Washington Post retailer President
Reagan say that he was a contract just
about with just about those the button
you know I mean so we have had to fight
in all different type of fronts yes I'm
very concerned because I mean I hate
what's happened absolutely honest but I
like to really his producer
I know when security of the United
States had been in danger
do you have used some type of people
like that
I remember the mr. Luciano before the
invasion of Sicily there on the evening
mr. stallion it is no comparison between
these people and Stalin but you thought
about the security of the United State
was more important to have some type of
arrangement with mr. Stein against
Hitler that doesn't justify I'm trying
to say that but at the moment I just
didn't enter my mind that I would have
become involved in certain ways because
never entered my mind to me that pistol
if I was going to do any business with
anyone I would never do to our day
because our day was absolutely
checked hundred percent by the
Sandinistas by the CIA they know exactly
what everybody was doing there by the
Costa Rica's by the Israelis there are
at least maybe about a dozen of
intelligence H SEC in Costa Rica and
everybody was after our which was the
only operation of here Costa Rica so I
mean just just for for logic
of course that is not the same to see
pastoral all up the wall I went a couple
of time inside Nicaragua and I saw the
people there young kids are 15 16 years
old they were carrying 30 or 40 rounds
of ammunition against it sandanista they
cannot average over 800 rounds and all
the firepower ability and that's why I
did it
no problem but that's in fact I mean now
here you're saying it was a very
conscious kind of reasoning process that
you went through it was one that was
based on need and you said we need the
money and therefore we're willing to
take it from a George Morales orphans or
anybody else is that correct yes sir let
me undo it
not only the troops the troops operating
the field they have to be based in the
life's a lot of supporters now the
troops you can move them from one place
to another and they have at least three
or four rounds for depends what you do
with the campesinos there
let me ask you a question mr. Caesar I
don't want to get overly moralistic here
or something I want to ask you the
question because you you talk about your
need and the need to take money from
where it was necessary in order to
support your effort correct right so
what happens if the results of the
taking of that money are that more kids
die on the streets of American cities
because they take drugs that's the
difference close I was never involved in
traffic no I know like I understand that
I'm involved in murder and you became
funny with styling and he murdered
millions of people in there I am totally
against the drug traffic and but the
money that comes from it can do anything
it wants no sir like I say I'm not proud
of that but I'm just being have any
choice and maybe the US Congress didn't
give us any choice
I take all these people into a war this
before with insanity for our 80 miles
inside they have thousands of supporters
can't they see you know they're helping
them feeling them now what those people
with free those campesinos were murdered
by the Sandinistas that's reality of
life well I think the testimony
obviously speaks for itself and speaks
pretty powerfully I personally liked
rocked Aviano says are and respect him
in many ways and he's very committed
person but obviously as he himself said
that doesn't excuse what was done we are
going to recess we will come back and
mr. George Morales will testify when we
return and we will pick this up at 2:30
weird recess till 2:30
you